NSU Code of Conduct for Students NORTH SOUTH UNIVERSITY Center of Excellence in Higher Education NSU CoC DC VW CG Www MF DP SP EP Keywords North South University Code of Conduct Disciplinary Committee Verbal Warning Calling of Guardian Written Warning Monetary Fine Disciplinary Probation Suspension Expulsion Preamble North South University (NSU) is committed to the freedom of speech as stated in article 39 of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and constructive debate of alternative views, theory, and data.It recognizes and respects all peaceful and non-obstructive forms of dissent, whether individual or collective, that are within the university regulations and which do not interfere with the regular and essential academic/ non-academic operations of the university.
NORTH SOUTH UNIVERSITY IS DETERMINED @ to promote a safe and comfortable learning environment, and @ to enforce student discipline, and @ to promote and ensure academic integrity and campus civility, and @ to assure students who are alleged to be responsible for unacceptable conduct receive fair and impartial consideration. AND FOR THESE ENDS @ to promote practice of decent behavior and create and maintain a peaceful learning environment, and ® to provide guidelines for imposition of discipline in the university, and ® to define prohibited conduct and disciplinary action to be taken in the event of such misconduct, HAVE DEVOTED TO COMBINE OUR EFFORTS TO ACCOMPLISH THESE AIMS.Accordingly, the NSU authority, through the representation of the Disciplinary Committee (DC), who have performed their responsibilities in good and due form; do hereby establish NSU Code of Conduct (CoC) for Students.02 1.The Disciplinary Code 1.1.
Purpose The purpose of this code is to outline the acceptable standard of conduct and disciplinary actions applicable to students, in case of violations of the standard conduct. It is acknowledged that a disciplinary code and disciplinary actions are necessary for the smooth operation of an educational institution and the safety and fair treatment of all students.Moreover, this code provides guidelines and references for the disciplinary authority to ensure justice, while also applying disciplinary sanctions if needed.1.2.Underlying Principles This code is based on the following principles: @ Any violation of the CoC, as stated in this document, is a cause for initiating necessary disciplinary action(s).The judicial system is subject to the authority of the Vice-Chancellor of the university as he/she deems appropriate, except that the DC shall have the authority to approve disciplinary warning as a sanction.
The DC shall consider the cases and make recommendations to the Vice-Chancellor for necessary sanction(s). @ Proctor’s Office has the authority to the application of discipline at the university and at any event that is organized under the university banner, inside or outside the premises.The Proctor’'s Office ensures that there is no violation of the CoC.@ When enforcement of discipline is needed, emphasis is given on guidance and rehabilitation rather than the imposition of punishment.@ The DC is the apex body related to disciplinary matters concerning students.03 @ If a student is alleged of an activity that violates both this code and the law of the land, then disciplinary action at the university will normally proceed, while civil or criminal proceedings will be initiated by informing the law enforcement agency.The application of discipline in all instances must be consistent and fair.1.3.
Disciplinary Sanctions Based on the severity of the misconduct, the range of official sanctions shall be recommended by the DC for violation of regulations (both academic and social). The diciplinary sanctions are the following: 1.3.1 Verbal Warning In case of moderate offense, an assistant proctor under the guidance of the proctor should conduct a disciplinary interview with the student involved along with the student affected/witness(es) that may result in an initial official warning.This is a notice to the student that his/her conduct was questionable and that if the student is eventually found in violation of a rule while on disciplinary warning; subsequent action may be more severe.The verbal warning shall become a matter of record in the student's file to track the student's behavior for future reference.1.3.2.
Calling of Guardian and Written Warning More serious offense or repetition of the misconduct can result in calling of guardian along with a final written warning where the student and guardian shall execute a bond to take on the liability of any future disciplinary actions. The final written warning shall be recorded in the student's file to track the student's behavior for future reference.1.3.3.Loss of Privilege Loss of privilege is the withdrawal of privilege, use of a service or participation in an activity for a specific period of time consistent with the offense committed and the rehabilitation of the student.Loss of privilege may be imposed separately or in addition to any other sanction(s).04 1.3.4.Monetary Fine Students will be charged with a monetary fine for violating specific codes of conduct.The monetary fine will be imposed based on the violation of code and/or repetition of the occurrence.
1.3.5, Disciplinary Probation Disciplinary Probation status shall be for a specific length of time in which any further violation of the CoC puts the student’s status with the university in jeopardy. The status of disciplinary probation is assigned for a specific period of time.Though the student will be allowed to continue with courses at the university, disciplinary probation status may affect qualification for some awards, prizes or student financial aid and/or impose some conditions or tasks to comply.If the student is found “in-violation’ for another violation of the CoC, while on disciplinary probation, more severe sanctions may be imposed- such as suspension or expulsion.While on disciplinary probation, a hold will be placed on a student's record for record-keeping purposes.Where the violation of the code requires rectification for future progressive and or corrective measures in conduct, Proctor's Office will keep the student on disciplinary probation.
During this disciplinary probation period, the student's behavior will be closely monitored and he/she will be called to the Proctor’s Office for hearing. 1.3.6.Temporary Suspension The student may, if necessary, be temporarily suspended, before, during, or pending the outcome of the inquiry.Such a sanction requires the student to leave the campus immediately.It may be imposed upon a student by the Department Head (Academic), or the Chairperson of the DC, or the Proctor, should he/she have sufficient reason to believe that the alleged student is an immediate threat to the safety of persons, property or to the essential functions of the university.Any instantly suspended student, who returns to the campus during the period of interim suspension, shall be subjected to disciplinary dismissal or disciplinary expulsion.Any student who is summarily suspended will be required to stay off university property until an official hearing is conducted by the DC.05 1.3.7.
Disciplinary Suspension The cases where a student is accused of major breach of conduct by committing a severe misconduct will be directed to the highest authority of disciplinary affairs, the DC. For example, a student may be suspended for up to 2 semesters as per the decision made by the DC.The suspension shall exclude the student from registration, class attendance, participation in university events and activities, and use of university facilities for a specified period of time.In cases where the student is currently attending courses, s/he will be allowed to finish the semester without prejudice.The disciplinary suspension will then start from the following semester for the stipulated period of time.If the student has voluntarily refrained from registering for the semester during which the DC holds its hearing, that semester will not be counted within the stipulated period of disciplinary suspension.Disciplinary suspension becomes a matter of record in the student's file.1.3.8.
Disciplinary Expulsion Disciplinary Expulsion is a sanction that removes the student from the individual’s academic program and permanently separates a student from the university without the opportunity to graduate or re-enroll at the university in the future. Disciplinary expulsion shall be executed by the approval of the Vice-Chancellor of the university.An overlay will be permanently placed on the student's transcript.Further, a hold will be permanently placed on a student's record for record-keeping purposes and reported in student's transcript.Disciplinary expulsion is executed where a series of previous progressive and corrective measures have not produced the anticipated effect, or a series of verbal and/or written warnings have not been effective, or a student is alleged to have committed an inexcusable offense.06 1.3.9.
Restitution/Compensation to the University Restitution requires a student to pay for damages to or misappropriation of university property or the property of members of or visitors to the university. Such restitution shall be charged to any student who alone, or through group activities, organizes or knowingly participates in the events causing such damages or costs.Restitution may be imposed separately or in addition to other sanction(s).1.4.Schedule of Offences @ The disciplinary action in the columns represents the maximum proposed punishment that may be imposed depending on the type/severity of the breach and the number of times it has been committed by the student.@ While charging a disciplinary action, previous breaches and punishments, which are still valid, must be considered when deciding the action to be taken against a related breach to a past offense.@ If the deciding authority is of the opinion that there are valid justifying factors, the penalty shall be reduced.
@ The schedule of offenses and proposed action indicated are merely served as a guideline and does not constitute inflexible rules that have to be followed. The circumstances and the merits of each case must be taken into account and the deciding authority is expected to use his/her discretion to make a proper judgment.@ North South University reserves the right to amend this code and/or charge a student with an offense that although not contained within this code but is deemed an offense in terms of the common law and acceptable practice.07 1.5.Filing a Complaint If a student or group of students have concerns about treatment by another student(s), it is appropriate to seek help from the Proctor's Office.Security personal available at designated places around the campus are the first point of contact in any on-campus students dispute.The security personnel will direct student(s) involved in dispute to the Proctor's Office.The student (i.e.
complainant) feeling mistreated may directly come to the Proctor's Office, meet the available assistant proctor, narrate the incident and file a complaint. The complainant is required to file a written complaint in a formal complaint form which is available at the Proctor's Office.Upon receiving the formal complaint, the Proctor's Office will initiate the investigation and conduct disciplinary process stated in this CoC which provides detailed procedures and authorities for dealing with different types of problems.Students are also welcome to lodge a complain electronically by emailing the detail of the mistreatment to the Proctor or any of the assistant proctors.08 2.Definition, Sample Offenses, and Punishments 2.1.
Disruptive and intolerable behavior to hinder university activities Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense (Non-exhaustive) 1st time | 2nd time| 3rd time An action or Action includes wwe SP Ep combination of omission, abetment CG actions by a student or a group of students that unreasonably interferes with, hinders, obstructs or prevents the smooth and regular functioning and operations of the university, including the holding of classes and exams and/or any administrative, extra-curricular or co-curricular functions. either orally, or in writting or using audio/video record or any physical activity, either virtually or on-campus or off-campus causing or abetting chaos in the university premises by creating noise, obstructions to avert holding classes and exams and/or administrative, extra-curricular or co-curricular activities.09 2.2.
Intolerance Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense student, or a group of students, shows condemnable disrespect to a socially acceptable belief(s) or behavior(s) of other individuals or groups based on, including but not limited to, gender, race, religion, class, political affiliation, caste, status or position in the university or the community at large. someone else's belief(s) or feelings or sentiments which include behavior that is motivated by malice, ill-motive, or any form of culpable state of mind without any rational justifications.(Non-exhaustive) | 1sttime | 2nd time} 3rd time An attitude, feeling or |Condemnable Wwwe| SP EP belief(s) wherein a disrespect to CG 2.3.
Intimidation or Threat Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense creating undue pressure on other individual or university personnel/authorities with intent to unduly influence other/others to act in an unreasonable manner. not limited to either verbal or written or by electronic message or using social media (i.e, Facebook, Messenger, Whatapp, Instagram, Twitter, and whatever defined time to time as social media) (Non-exhaustive) Ist time | 2nd time| 3rd time 1.Threatening or Direct threat of CG EP behaving recklessly or | violence, includes but asp 10 2.Wrongfully soliciting support, signatures or participation of others in activities of a rebellious character , detrimental to the normal functioning of the university.
3, Participating in any activity that disrupts any ordinary functioning of the university by unlawful force or violence or provocative acts, Rebellious behavior includes conduct which is in a gross deviation from what a reasonable person would expect and causes danger or threat to other/others. CG EP & SP 2.4.Smoking, vaping and other similar activities North South University (NSU) campus is an absolutely non-smoking facilty.The continuation of this practice will require the willingness, understanding, patience, and adherence to rules by all members of the campus community.Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Smoking, vaping, and similar activities related to inhaling and exhaling substances that is harmful to human beings or have the potential to create harmful dependency.(Non-exhaustive) Ist time | 2nd time} 3rd time Smoking or vaping ME IMFBDT| sp inside the NSU BDT | 3,000 campus.
500 | & WW Possessing cigarettes, e-cigarette, vaping Seizure | WW device, any other ofthe | &CG device and/or any item(s) material which can & VW lead to a fire hazard. 11 Smoking in close proximity to the NSU Campus WW | MF BDT 500 VW 2.5.Drugs and controlled substances Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) (Non-exhaustive) Isttime |2nd time} 3rd time 1.Consuming alcohol =| Consumption of EP and or any other alcohol and or drugs intoxicating substance | inside the NSU including but not campus.limited to any prohibited drugs at | Being under the MFup | EP NSU premises, influence of alcohol to BDT and or drugs while at 25,000 2.Enteringthe NSU =| Campus.&CG campus in an intoxicated state.
ial Manufacturing, selling | CG& EP or delivering or in SP possession of alcohol, any illegal drugs and/or controlled substances, In extreme cases, the student will be immediately handed over to the law enforcement agency on recommendation from the NSU authority without the need to call fora committee meeting. 12 2.6.Possession and/or use of weapons/explosives Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) (Non-exhaustive) Ist time | 2nd time| 3rd time Carrying orbeingin —_| Use of firearms, EP possession of firearms, | fireworks, explosives or Seture hazardous or explosive materials dangerous material or | (suchas bombs, ofthe g device,explosivesor | cocktails,hazardous | tem explosive materials, | chemicals) or anything |™aterial gas lighter, box of similar in nature.matches or something | ci aworks excent as that can cause fire etc.and when authorized inside the boundary of by a designated NSU catfipus.
university official. In possession of arms, |CG&SP} EP fireworks, explosives or] Seizure explosive materials of the (such as bombs, item/ cocktails, hazardous sneaaviel chemicals) or anything similar in nature.Carrying or in WW SP EP possession of knives, &CG sharp objects,clubs, | Seizure sticks or any item which | ofthe can cause death or item) injury to any person, or meer for the purpose of peeteria threatening or intimidating any person, In severe cases, student (s) will be handed over to the law enforcing agencies for holding any of the above-mentioned weapons.13 2.7.Physical Abuse Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense kicking, use of physical force, body posture or gesture or body movement that inflicts or threatens to inflict pain on any individual within the university campus without any lawful justification.
physical restraint; use of unnecessary force in holding or restraining; improper use of physical or mechanical restraints; use of seclusion without proper orders or cause; slapping, kicking, hitting, pushing, shoving, choking, hair pulling, biting, etc. inappropriate horseplay; raising a hand or shaking a fist, crowding or moving into personal space; intentional inflicting of pain, etc.(Non-exhaustive) _| Ist time |2nd time] 3rd time Any act of physical The physical harming : CG & EP violence, such as of a student through SP beating, punching, unnecessary use of 14 2.8.Sexual Harassment Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) ; ond | ard (Non-exhaustive) Ist time tine | aime 1.Unwelcome _| Teasing, offhand comments, | In extreme cases, Ep sexual advances, | sexual or dirty jokes the student will be touching and/or _| indicating someone, immediately groping.
comments on physical handed over to attributes or living places, | thelaw 2,Requests for _| Felationship status, spreading | enforcement sexual favors,and | fumors about or rating agency on other verbal or _| thers as to sexual activity or | recommendation physical performance, talking about | trom the NSU harassment ofa _| one’s sexual activity in front authority, sexual nature | Of othersanddisplayingor | Gg sp that is unwanted. | “istriouting sexually explicit savek dtborsiite.drawings, pictures and/or written material, sending of 3, Promising unsolicited emails of sexual fain th nature, instant messaging (or comment) through mobile exchange for SMS, any social media sexual conduct including but not limited to and any form of Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, pleasure-see king WhatsApp, Imo, Viber and so that humiliate | forth, blogs, web pages, etc.others, or forcefully making physical contacts that is sexual in nature.
EP Recording private In extreme cases, conversation and/ or the student will be secretly videotaping private | immediately body parts with an intention | handed over to the tothreat someone forany | law enforcement form of pleasure-seeking —_| agency on and/or for other benefits. | recommendation from the NSU authority.CG& SP 15 2.9 Indecency in behavior, exposure, language, and acts of cruelty to people or animals in public or on social media Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation /Guideline (Non- exhaustive) Punishment for the alleged offense |st time 2ndtime 3rd time 1, Indecent behavior ; Indulgence with any sexual or sexually motivated behavior as well as public displays of affection at NSU campus, which is contrary to the local moral or other standards of appropriate behavior or generally accepted standards of propriety or decorum.
SP EP 2, Indecent exposure: Deliberate exposure in public, the innerwear or parts of his/her body in circumstances where the exposure is contrary to the local moral, or other standards of appropriate behavior, or generally accepted standards of propriety or decorum VW MF Up to BDT 5000 3, Obscene, indecent, aggressive and/or any offensive language: Using obscene, indecent or aggressive language, or pictures that may cause distress through verbal/written communication, insinuating/suggestive posts, trolling, stalking, cyber-bullying, etc. to other members (s) of the NSU community ww MF Up to BDT 5000 SP 4, Acts of cruelty to people or animals: Treating people or animals with cruelty, which is contrary to the local moral or other standards of appropriate behavior or generally accepted standards.WW SP EP 16 2.10.
Acts of Academic Dishonesty Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) ENSenenaneeive) Isttime ae ad Academic dishonesty | Work includes any The faculty includes the following | scholarly or member shall and any other forms of | non-scholarly creation | have the initial academic dishonesty: | of the mind. jurisdiction to .assign: Reademy dishonesty?[SERGE ng Yeot?* | assistance from others Knowingly, helping, — | to write assignments, gracie (f for procuring, oF online exam papers, or ne fits o encouraging another | providing them to Neh i?‘i person toengage in | others in exchange for |W We ne academic dishonesty money or not.violation or misconduct.
occurred, 2.Cheating: To access (either Or, Any dishonesty or physically or through by A falling deception in fulfilling the anata rade (F) for avacadentie electronically or any oe ae requirement such as: other way of having which the access) anything (files, |”, lat (a) Using or question papers, occurred attempting to use crip | 2"SWer Scripts grae ) shests or passession sheets, other official | Or, of unauthorized records, CD, DVD, office aif the Facalt material oe room, key, and so forth, marahes fehe y technological devices, | P@P&: staplers, : Chair of the electronic sources, Bhotecopy macning Department Aoleniekarts, printer, and so forth) Ake Keane unauthorized study which is confidential the School refer aids in an academic _| 29d tegarded as the the academic assignment, or INGA property, dishonest : y copying or issue to the 17 colluding with a fellow student in an effort to improve one's grade.
(b) Possessing any material or devices intended to be used in the aid of exam by writing in desk, body parts, or in any analogous objects or substances. (c) Obtaining unauthorized assistance or accessing, reviewing, or obtaining answers from another person or source.(d) Furnishing unauthorized assistance or answers to another person.(e) Possessing, using, distributing, or selling unauthorized copies of academic materials.(f) Representing academic work by another person as one's own.(g) Doing academic work in place of another person.(h) Electronically or physically obtaining unauthorized access to, or altering the Proctor’s Office, the Proctor will investigate and will award relevant punishment in consultation with respective NSU authority (i.e., Office of the Vice Chancellor).
A student completed a course in past, helped writing assignments, online exam papers, or providing them to other current student(s) in exchange for money or not If the Faculty member /the Chair of the Department /the Dean of the School refer the academic dishonesty issue to the Proctor office, the Proctor will investigate and will award relevant punishment in consultation with respective NSU authority (Le., Office of the Vice Chancellor). WW & CG & MF up to BDT 20,000 SP & MF up to BDT 30,000 18 computer files of the faculty member or university confidential records, or agency, or altering or destroying those files.3.
Fabrication: (a) Falsifying, inventing, or misstating any lab data, research statistics, information or citation in an academic assignment, field experience, academic credentials, job application, or placement file; (b) Knowingly furnishing misleading/ false information toa university official or to the university about academic matters 4, Plagiarism: (a) Submitting someone else's published or unpublished works (i.e. words, images, other materials) in whole or in part, or in paraphrase as one's own without fully and properly crediting the author with footnotes, quotation 12 marks, citations, or bibliographic references, (b) Submitting as one's own original work, material obtained from an individual, agency or the internet without appropriate reference to the person, agency, or webpage as the source of the material.(c) Submitting as one's original work material that has been produced through unacknowledged collaboration with others without release in writing from collaborators.
(d) Submitting one's own previously written, oral or creative work without modification and instructor permission. 5.Facilitating academic dishonesty (a) Assisting or attempting to assist any person to commit any act of academic misconduct such as allowing 20 someone to copy a paper or test answers, (b) Dissemination of information about the contents of exam papers or selling, sharing or otherwise providing copies of a quiz or exam, wholly or partially completed written assignments to others or receiving them.2.11.Disobedience Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conductis) (Non-exhaustive) —_| 1st time | 2nd time] 31d time 1.Unreasonably Misbehaving, arguing disobeying, interfering, | unreasonably and/or |e Sa = CG | to BDT resisting, or failing to showing aggression comply with the directive | over direction(s) of any 10,000 of an identified university | official of the official acting in an official | university.
capacity, 2. Trespassing and similar forms of unauthorized presence within the university campus.3.Tresspassing Unauthorized access ww |MFUp| sP to any place of the to BDT campus, such as entering opposite 10,000 gender lounge; toilet, faculty/ staff office, faculty/staff lounge, faculty/ staff only area/ restricted area.21 2.12.Deception Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense or complaint against other students, authority or faculty members in order to deceive or conceal the truth.(Non-exhaustive) Ist time | 2nd time} 3rd time Furnishing false Student (5) involved EP information to the in forgery, alteration university with the or misuse-of intent to deceive.university documents and records.
Intentional making of] cG & Ep false statement and SP Presenting false guardian, false/ misleading medical documents or any other kind of false/ misleading information (verbal, written, through social media, or in any other way) to any faculty member or administrative personnel of NSU. MFup | SP EP to BDT 25,000 & CG Knowingly furnishing false information on academic matters.CG EP & SP 22 Knowingly and willful CG Ep falsification of & SP educational data.Fargery, alteration or EP & misuse of university |Restitution documents, records, funds.2.13.Security Check and Parking Rule Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline (Non-exhaustive) Punishment for the alleged offense Ist time |2nd time 3rd time ].Non-cooperation with security personnel authorized to check the student's bodies, bags, and belongings in the prescribed manner.2.Violating the parking rule of NSU.
* Student is noncompliant to the request of security check and or misbehaving with the security personnel. * Showing unneccesary arrogance and anger against security personnel during security checks.Failure to produce parking card.* Failure to produce NSU ID card to the security personnel by vehicle passengers.WW & CG VW SP Noncompliance to the parking rules of the university (Le: wrong parking, over speeding inside and around the campus) or misbehaving with the security personne at the parking area, WW | GG MF of BDT 100 and Seizing of NSU parking card for 3 days.23 A student trying to bring unauthorized visitor(s) from parking entry points.MF up to BDT 25,000 SP EP 2.14.Online Attendance through RFID Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense bring his/her ID, the temporary pass taken from NSU authority should be presented to the respective faculty member for manual attendance of that day.
(Non-exhaustive) Ist time | 2nd time} 3rd time 1. Failure to wear A student giving MF CG EP student ID while on | proxy attendance of | upto | &SP campus.another student BDT who is absent in 5,000 2.Swiping other class.& WW student's ID or allowing others to use his/her |D card | An absent student MFup] ep to facilitate who handover his/her |to BDT entrance to the NSU ||D for proxy 10,000 campus orinclass.| attendance.& WW Note: lf a student forgets to 24 2.15.Forgery of Identification Document Sample Offense/ Punishment for Definition of .eit the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) ag and | 3rd J (Non-exhaustive) Isttime | time time Forging or misusing of | Duplication ofownNSU| MFupto | cq any identification ID card off by a genuine BDT & SP document or adopting | NSU student.10,000 any other unlawful A genuine NSU student, | MF up to BDT eas (i.e ID who helps outsider(s) to | 25,000 &the cG card/Parking card) to | enter the NSU campus | outsider will & SP enter NSU premises.
by any unlawfulmeans. | be handed over to the law enforcing agency.Agenuine NSU student, | MF up to BDT | CG who duplicates/creates | 35,000 &the |& SP NSU ID and helps outsider(s) will outsider(s) toenterthe | behanded NSU campus.over to the law enforcing agency, Agenuine NSU student, | MFupto |WW | CG who helps other current | BDT 5,000 & SP NSU student(s} to enter the NSU campus by any unlawful means.Agenuine NSU student,| MFupto |WW | CG who duplicates/creates | BDT 25,000 & SP NSU ID and helps other current NSU student(s) to enter the campus with it.A student is found to EP rent his/her ID, original or duplicate, to others for entering the campus.25 2.16 Property Damage Punishment for Definition of | ee ai the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) Pranehory GuRFEINE 2nd 3rd (Non-exhaustive) ist time time _|time 1.
Intentionally Arson EP & or negligently Restitution hermn/d Willful or negligent or] EP & arm/damage malicious damage or |PRestitution to the ; destruction of university property. property or property of Reckless behavior CG, SP EP& other students, causing damage to | Restitution |Restitution faculty property.& MF members or double the staff, or any value of lawful visitor.cs 7 amaged.2.Hacking or a damaging NSU Tampering with CG, WW, SP server!elevators, security Restitution | Restitution re devices suchasdoors |g yr & MF WIRGEES: and locks, university | double the | double the equipment such as value of | value of computers, projectors, ; property | property RFID devices and damaged.| damaged.electronics and/or other university property.* Hacking NSU server, online classrooms, NSU website (s), and official social media pages.
26 2.17 Theft Definition of Wrongful Conducts) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense (Non-exhaustive) 1st time ad ae Appropriation | Misappropriation or EP & of property conversion of Restitution belonging to | university funds, others within | supplies equipment, NSU campus | labor, material, space with intent to | or facilities permanently pe di Possessing, storing or SP & EP & ; transporting goods, _| Restitution & | Restitution stolen from the MF double university and/or other | the value of students, or faculty the goods member, or staff. stolen.
Aiding or abetting CG, SP & MF EP & theft/hiding of double the | Restitution university property ‘| value of the goods stolen Misappropriation of sP& EP & sponsor funds, any farm Restitution | Restitution of money & MF double embezzlement and lack | the fund of transparency in involved declaring supporting financial documents by student or student bodies of NSU, including student clubs and other ventures managed by students. 27 2.18 Tarnishing the image of the university or university personnel and other activities subversive to the state and its policy negligently, individually or jointly, directly or indirectly contributes in disseminating any electronic mail or electronic mail messages on the NSU campus, over social media or any other of communication platforms to defame, degrade, demean, or instigate other students, faculty members, administrative officials/staffs or any other member of the university irrespective of religions, cultures, ethnicities, or origin.
Definition of Sample Offense/ Punishment for ee duct(s) Explanation/Guideline the aleges offense (Non-exhaustive) Ist time |2nd time | 3rd time Tarnishing the —_| A student individually or Ep image of the jointly, directly or indirectly, university and its | physically or online, using members by any | social media or any other means virtual or communication whatsoever platforms attempts to engage without any valid | or engages inside or outside excuse OF of the NSU campus to justification.
damage the university's image/ reputation or disrupts the functioning of its normal activities, or directly or indirectly causes or is likely to cause harm or distress to the university or its subsidiary entity/entities, A student deliberately or SP EP 28 A student deliberately or EP negligently, individually or — | And will jointly, directly or indirectly be engages himself orherself | handed with acts forthe purpose of | overto instigating or supporting any | the law form of extremism or enforcing terrorism, or any other similar | agency form of activities, or attempts to engage with activities contrary to the law of the country, subversive to the state and its laws and policies, detrimental to the local, national and/or global peace and security.
A student posting publiclyin |SP&MF|SP&MF| EP social media platforms upto | upto targeted to demean any BDT | BDT faculty member, official and 10,000 | 20,000 the institution including deliberate falsification and use of derogatory comments on any public posts relating to faculty member, official and the institution. A student individually or sPé EP Restitution jointly collects money from any NSU student, alumni or faculty members or staffs for any purpose including donations/contributions without taking prior written approval from the university authority.29 A student individually or jointly using the name, symbol, logo, etc.of NSU in any form, such as social or electronic media or any facility that benefits current students or alumni without prior approval of NSU authority.
Restitution SP & EP 2.19 Unethical interference in any proceedings at NSU Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense any proceedings of the university by leaking official or personal documents of any employee of the university in advance to cause deliberate unrest. official documents/unofficial announcements of the university with others that are not officially shared with students by the university authority.Or, A student or group of students posted publicly unofficial announcements/official documents in social media by collecting them from unofficial sources.
Wrongful Conduct(s and | 3rd 9 ‘) (Non-exhaustive) Isttime | time | time Unlawful A student or a group of SP EP interference with any | students are found proceedings of the | interfering, in any admission testand | proceeding of the related activities, admission process, Unethical A _—_ or eye SP EP interference with _ | Students are found sharing 30 2.20.Night stay at campus Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) INonexhaustive) i st and eid Staying at the campus at night | A student or group of CG | EP for the preparation of any student stay at campus late | & SP program/events or at night without taking conducting any activity or any | permission from the office other reason whatsoever unless the prior permission from the Office of the Vice-Chancellor along with the consent from parents is obtained. of the Vice-Chancellor.
2.21.On-Campus Promotional Activities Definition of Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense Wrongful Conduct(s) : ist | 2nd | 3rd (Non-exhaustive) | time | time | time 1.Promoting business and | Promoting business | wwe | SP EP commercial activities in the | and commercial ME up form of banners, posters, —_| activities or social toBDT sample demonstrations, causes take place 100.0 00 stalls, and product without taking ‘ placement or by any other | approval from analogous meansofany —_| Proctor’s Office. non-NSU entity without obtaining permission from the Proctor's Office, Size,dimension,and | ww | MFup| MFup 2.Negotiating with area of display failed to BDT.|to BDT, sponsors outside NSU, to follow the 5,000 | 10,000 without declaring the code | instruction of the of ethics of NSU or other _ | Proctor's Office.applicable rules of the university to the sponsor(s).31 3.
Promoting on-campus activities by student clubs in violation of the applicable NSU rules. Student club promoting club activities without having prior approval from the Proctor’s Office.The Proctor’s Office will take punitive measure in consultation with the Student Affair’s Office and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.The Vice Chancellor will have the discretion to award the punishment.Hampering learning environment, creating an obstacle for others while promoting club activities.The Proctor’s Office will take punitive measure in consultation with the Student Affair’s Office and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.The Vice Chancellor will have the discretion to award the punishment.32 2.22.
Breach of contract or consent terms Definition of Wrongful Conduct(s) Sample Offense/ Explanation/Guideline Punishment for the alleged offense (Non-exhaustive) |sttime {2nd time| 3rd time 1.Failureto abide |ATAis found WW or sp Ep by the terms of doing an Termination reference stipulated | unauthorized of aTA in the contract of activity(ies) or cantEet service by a involves in any Teaching Assistant | form of undue (TA). treatment to an NSU student.2.Failure to abide | Astudent SP EP by the terms of any | complains or consent form condemns provided by the publicly, or creates university authority | unrest regarding a after officially matter that has accepting it.been previously agreed upon by the student through an official consent form.33 2.23 Student club activities Definition of Sample Offense/ Punishment for Wionghil Conducta Explanation/Guideline the alleged offense (Non-exhaustive) Isttime | 2ndtime | 3rdtime 1.
Any activity * Posting/ The Proctor’s }Club Club contrary tothe | hanging/ Office will activities | activities policy and rule of | displaying of any | take punitive |suspended | suspended the university as | wrong/ measurein |forone — | forone authorized by the | unauthorized/ —_| consultation semester | year higher authority. | unapproved with the promotional Student 2.Getting material.Affair's Office involved with any and the club ¢ Promotional Office of the activity/activities | material posted/ |Vice without beinga | hanged/ Chancellor.valid member of | displayed in The Vice any club wrong/ Chancellor approved by NSU | unauthorized/ —_| will have authority.unapproved discretion to areas.award the 3.Failure to punishment.maintain club * Wrong/ rooms or the unauthorized/ surrounding environment in clean and hygienic condition.4.Covering the windows in club rooms or creating any obstruction to blur the vision from outside unapproved size of promotional material.
34 Club member (s) | WW & MF up| The The does notmeet | toBDT unqualified | unqualified NSU 10,000 member(s) | member(s) requirements. will be will be expelled banned from from the all the student student club, clubs.Former club WW & MF up | The member(s) to BDT unqualified and/or 10,000 member(s) non-member(s) and/or entering in the non-membe club room, or r(s) will be unauthorized banned from participation in all the club activities.student clubs, The current WW & MF up| The Club member(s) to BDT member(s) | activities helping former | 10,000 & will be suspended club member(s) | canceling | banned from | for one and/or club allstudent | semester non-member(s) | membership | club and the entering in the membership | member(s) club room, or /activity will be unauthorized banned from participation in all the club activities.student clubs.
35 Member(s) WW The Club keeping any of member(s) | activities the following alongwith | suspended areas dirty, the current | for one year untidy and president unhygienic: club and room and/or executive surrounding member club area and/or responsible any area of the for this campus during incident will preparation of be expelled events. from the student club and the club activities suspended for one semester.Member(s) WW and MF | The The leaving garbage |upto1,000 | member(s) | member(s) or any used alongwith — | will be promotional the current | banned from material(s) in any president all student area of the and clubs.campus after executive any event.member responsible for this incident, will be expelled from the student.
36 club and the club activities suspended for one semester Member(s} Club Club covering the activities activities windows and/or suspended | suspended doors of club for one for one year rooms in any semester way, Student club The Club offering member(s) _| activities memberships to alongwith | suspended students on the current | for one year academic president probation (or and students with executive CGPA under 2.5), member(s) responsible for this incident, will be expelled from the student club and the club activities will be suspended for one semester 37 3. The Formal Disciplinary Actions The DC is headed by the Honorable Chairperson of the DC, who is a Member of Board of Trustees and selected by the other Board of Trustee members under the leadership of the Chairman, Board of Trustees.The Chairperson of the DC is appointed for one Fiscal Year (July-June).The Proctor serves as the member secretary of the DC.
The DC comprises of the following members: the Vice-Chancellor, the Deans of all academic schools and, the Registrar. 3.1.ln case of violation of the code, rules, and regulations, the matter shall be reported to the Chairperson of the DC.The DC will provide the accused an opportunity of being heard to ensure the basic concept of procedural fairness.The following procedures shall be adhered to: 3.2.The Committee shall notify the student and his/her guardian about the charges against him/her in writing in advance to file an objection as a defense.3.3.The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure and evidence previously outlined in the CoC.Irrelevant and hearsay evidence will not be considered.The inquiry in disciplinary proceedings will be based on the innocence or guilt of the person(s) accused of violating the CoC.3.4.
At the hearing, the student being charged shall have ample opportunity to explain the circumstances surrounding the incident and are encouraged to present pertinent evidence and the testimony of witnesses in person. In addition, both parties shall be afforded the opportunity to comment on any written statements or other evidence presented, and to respond to questions.The Chairperson in agreement with the DC may overrule any request made under section 3.4 considering an adverse impact on any witness and his/her personal, psychological or medical information of a sensitive nature; or the privacy or welfare of any witness or of the accused student.38 3.5.The Chairperson or a person designated by the Chairperson will present the charges and pieces of evidence against the accused before the committee.3.6.The Chairperson and/or any other member of the DC shall have the right to examine witness(es).The testimony of an unknown or unidentified witness(es) is inadmissible.3.7.
The imposition of sanctions shall not be based solely upon the failure of the accused to answer the charges. In the event of the failure or refusal of the accused person to appear at the hearing, the evidence in support of the charges shall be presented and considered in absentia.A decision in the form of a written report of the original hearing will be made consisting of the followings: 1.Notice of charges and other documents 2.A summary of the evidence presented 3.All the findings and 4, Sanction(s) recommended 3.8.A review against the final decision must be submitted through a written application within 10 calendar days from the notification of the sanction to the Chairperson of the DC.3.9, Review Procedure: (a) The decision given by the DC may be reviewed.All review applications will be conisdered and decided by the DC.Students must send their review application to the attention of the Chairperson of the DC.
(b) The student must send the review application within 10 calendar days of receiving written notification of the decision. (c) The student seeking the review decision must indicate, in writing, the specific bases or reasons for his or her application.The review application should include the following: student's name, ID number, local address, phone number, grounds for review, and appropriate and detailed information regarding why the review application should be granted.(d) The DC will consider the review application and issue a decision.The student will receive written notification of the review decision from the Office of the Proctor.The decision of the DC is final.THE UNIVERSITY RESERVES THE RIGHT TO AMEND, ADD TO OR ADAPT ANY PROVISION OF THIS CODE.SUCH AMENDMENTS WILL HOWEVER BE COMMUNICATED TO ALL STUDENTS.
Our mission is to help students excel by assisting them in preparing for personal fulfillment, responsible citizenship, and success in life. We support their efforts to learn through extra and co-curricular experiences while achieving their academic goals and striving for excellence. We do this by providing professional, supportive, and personalized services. Additionally, we foster meaningful student engagement in campus and community life, which helps to develop leadership skills, educates about diversity, promotes tolerance, and contributes to learning. We are also committed to developing environments that are safe, welcoming, inclusive, and healthy for all.
Our team is led by the Director, Senior Student Affairs Officer, and the Secretary to the Office of Student Affairs, who work together to oversee student services and engagement activities. We are dedicated to managing student clubs, handling feedback and complaints, and organizing upcoming events to enhance student involvement and satisfaction. Students can contact the Office of Student Affairs for appointments or assistance with any concerns regarding their clubs or student life. Our officials are always available to support students in every way possible, ensuring they have meaningful and enriching experiences throughout their time at the university.
For prospective students, the North South University Admission System offers an easy way to create a new account and apply. Both undergraduate and graduate applicants can log in to manage their applications or recover their passwords if needed. Undergraduate admissions inquiries can be directed to the help line via phone at +880 2 55668200 (Ext: 5000, 5002, 5004, 4001), email at admissions@northsouth.edu, or mobile at +880 1732903003. For graduate admission inquiries, the help line can be reached at +880 2 55668200 (Ext: 1062, 6463), or mobile at +880 1886271722, and via email at graduate.admissions@northsouth.edu. The university is located at Plot 15, Block B, Bashundhara R/A, Dhaka, Bangladesh, and the contact phone number is +880 2 55668200, with fax available at +880 2 55668202.
The Office of External Affairs at North South University collects alumni features for the NSU Newsletter to highlight the achievements of its alumni. These features are published to showcase the accomplishments of former students, and interested alumni are invited to participate. To read the featured alumni stories, visit the OEA News Events page. Alumni wishing to volunteer for future issues can email Mr. Sk. Fardin Yaman at fardin.yaman@northsouth.edu with the subject "Interested for Alumni Feature."
Alumni who have not registered yet can complete the registration process by providing their student ID, full name, current email address, and contact phone. After verification, login details will be sent. Alumni who are already registered can log in to access and update their details. For any queries or assistance, the Office of External Affairs can be reached at +880 2 55668200 (Ext: 1064) or via email at nsualumni.affairs@northsouth.edu.
The NSU Art & Photography Club (NSUAPC), formerly known as the NSU Photography Club (NSUPC), is a student-led organization at North South University. Established in 1997, the club has become a vibrant platform for students to express their creativity through photography. Over the past 25 years, the club's members and photographers have worked tirelessly to bring photography to the forefront, showcasing their artistic talents both nationally and internationally.
The inception of NSUAPC was driven by a group of passionate individuals who sought to capture moments and make a difference through photography. Despite facing numerous challenges, their commitment to creating a space for photography enthusiasts led to the establishment of this club. Today, NSUAPC stands as a testament to their vision, having grown into one of the most active and successful student organizations at the university.
NSUAPC organizes a wide range of events, from national and international field trips to photography exhibitions and competitions. Among its most notable events is the "International Inter University Photography Competition," which is unique globally and ranks as the second-largest photography event in Bangladesh. The club’s goal is to nurture the development of quality photographers and foster connections between amateur and established photographers. Through its various activities, NSUAPC has become a major creative outlet for students at North South University.
Each semester, the club hosts several events, including basic photography workshops, one-day field trips, advanced photography workshops, monthly photography contests, and in-house photography exhibitions. Additionally, the club organizes national and international photography field trips and the prestigious International Inter University Photography Exhibition (IIUPE). While the club is dedicated to promoting the art of photography, it is also known for its fun-loving spirit, making it a second family for many of its members. The friendships, experiences, and shared passions make NSUAPC one of the most enthusiastic and artistic clubs at the university.
NSUAPC is guided by the support of its faculty advisor, Dr. Saiful Islam, who assists in overcoming challenges and ensuring the club's activities run smoothly. The club’s leadership team includes President Zamiur Rahman, General Secretary Tanjim Rahman Khan, Vice President Faria Hoque Tuly, Treasurer Nujhat Afrin Poushe, and Joint Secretary Israt Sultana.
For those interested in connecting with NSUAPC, the club is always open to new members and enthusiasts. The club believes in pushing boundaries and living by the motto, "The sky is not our limit. We set the limit of the sky.
NSU Canvas provides a streamlined process for all users to access courses and materials. To log in, users must first sign in to their NSU Email system, then click the provided Canvas login link, which grants access to the Canvas dashboard. Designers at NSU, who are responsible for managing course content, can find essential resources and manuals that guide them through the integration of Google Drive, the creation of virtual classroom links, the synchronization of Blueprint courses, importing module structures, and sharing class recordings along with grading policies.
Both students and faculty have access to user manuals that offer tutorials on a variety of functions, such as managing assignment groups, setting up grading policies, moderating quizzes, importing course content, and cross-listing courses. Additionally, there are instructions for managing virtual classes, joining courses via mobile devices, and accessing course materials. As part of the preparations for Fall 2021, users were advised to verify course listings, ensure the availability of "Welcome" modules, and set up Google Meet links. Some tasks, such as sending class codes, manually inviting students, or sharing lecture notes, are now automated through Canvas, streamlining administrative processes.
The Controller of Examinations (C of E) at NSU oversees student records, grades, transcripts, graduation applications, examination schedules, and the issuance of academic and non-academic certificates. Key officials include Ms. Afruza Sultana, Controller of Examinations, and Nyma Pervin, Assistant Controller of Examinations, along with other team members responsible for managing examination and graduation matters.
Guidelines for faculty members and invigilators during examinations emphasize timely commencement of exams, ensuring that students present their NSU ID cards, and that personal belongings, including electronic devices, are left in designated Bag Zones. Teaching assistants (TAs) assisting in exams are expected to avoid giving students hints. Students, on the other hand, are required to arrive at least 10 minutes early, place their belongings in designated areas, and refrain from communication during exams. Students arriving more than 15 minutes late may not be permitted to enter.
NSU’s grading policy is based on both Term Grade Point Average (TGPA) and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). If a course is retaken, the better grade is reflected, but the original grade remains on the transcript with a 0.0 grade point. High academic achievers are recognized through awards such as Summa Cum Laude, Magna Cum Laude, and Cum Laude, with top performers eligible for the Chancellor's or Vice Chancellor's Gold Medal. Graduates can collect their degree certificates post-convocation by submitting attested copies of necessary documents and returning the original NSU Student ID Card. In cases of lost ID cards, a General Diary (GD) from the police station must be provided.
North South University (NSU) offers several official documents for both current students and graduates, with application procedures managed primarily through the Registrar’s Document Services (RDS). For a Provisional Degree Certificate, students must apply through RDS following degree analysis approval, with a fee of BDT 2,000/-. The status of the application and collection details will be communicated via the student’s NSU email.
A Studentship Certificate is available only to enrolled students for a fee of BDT 100/-. Similarly, the Medium of Instruction Certificate can be requested by both enrolled students and graduates, also for BDT 100/-. Graduates who no longer have RDS access can apply using a physical form. For a Character Certificate, students and graduates can apply via RDS or use a physical form, with a BDT 100/- fee.
Testimonials are issued only to graduates at a cost of BDT 100/-, and a Migration Certificate is available for both graduates and withdrawn students for the same fee. The Date of Result Publication Certificate, meant only for graduates, costs BDT 100/- as well. Leave Certificates are exclusively available for currently enrolled students, also for BDT 100/-.
NSU also provides Transcripts, with Official Transcripts accessible to both current students and graduates for BDT 300/-, while Unofficial Transcripts are available only to enrolled students for BDT 100/-. Graduates applying for their degree must first undergo degree analysis, done through RDS, upon completing all degree requirements.
Additionally, NSU permits authorized individuals to collect documents on behalf of students, provided they present a completed authorization form, NID, and proof of application, such as an email or slip.
NSU’s academic departments maintain a strong focus on research, with missions emphasizing excellence in interdisciplinary studies. Research areas span accounting, economics, management, marketing, architecture, civil and environmental engineering, and electrical and computer engineering. The university aims to produce practical, solution-oriented outcomes that address both local and global challenges.
The Office of Research at North South University (NSU), located in Room 625 on Level 6 of the Admin Building in Bashundhara, Dhaka, has established ambitious research targets for the period of 2019-2023. Its primary objective is to foster a culture of research excellence by optimizing faculty expertise and laboratory resources. The department aims to significantly contribute to pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences by enhancing its laboratory resources to meet the growing demands of industrial development. Additionally, the department is committed to securing research funds from national and international agencies, while also fostering increased research collaborations both domestically and abroad. A key focus is to engage students in cutting-edge research to address pressing health-related issues.
The Department of Public Health at NSU shares a similarly ambitious research agenda for 2019-2023. It has set a target for faculty to allocate 25% of their time to research, with the goal of publishing at least one scientific article per faculty member per year in high-impact journals. The department also prioritizes disseminating scientific evidence through various channels, including local, regional, and international conferences, as well as through local newspapers and seminars.
External funding and collaboration play a pivotal role in supporting these initiatives, with key partners including the Ministry of Environment (GoB), the JSPS Grant in Aid (B), and organizations such as the World Bank, FAO, CAN Foundation, NIH, NSF, BCCTF, and SEEK. These external sources of funding and collaboration are essential to the success of NSU’s research endeavors.
NSU’s Office of External Affairs (OEA), established in February 2015, is instrumental in enhancing the institution’s global reputation. Acting as a bridge between NSU and other renowned international institutions, the OEA is dedicated to fostering partnerships and collaborations that advance NSU’s mission. This office manages various outreach initiatives, including webinars and events, which are made available through their Facebook page.
The Department of Marketing and International Business at NSU is led by Dr. Mahmud Hassan, an associate professor and a distinguished researcher. Dr. Hassan’s research interests include customer value creation, customer citizenship behavior, and product innovation. His extensive work has been recognized in reputable journals, including the Journal of Consumer Behaviour and Internet Research, and he regularly presents his findings at prestigious conferences such as the American Marketing Association and the Academy of Marketing Science. Dr. Hassan’s research network spans Australia and Europe, where he collaborates with leading behavioral scientists, and he holds editorial board memberships in several renowned journals. His contributions to the fields of green marketing, corporate social responsibility, and brand innovativeness are particularly notable, as evidenced by his numerous working papers and publications.
Additionally, NSU continues to attract diverse student populations, including international students. The university’s admission requirements are tailored to various programs across its schools, with specific criteria for undergraduate and graduate applicants. The admission process emphasizes academic excellence, with requirements varying across disciplines, including the School of Engineering & Physical Sciences and the Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology. Foreign applicants are required to meet minimum academic standards equivalent to those of local applicants.
Vendors seeking to collaborate with NSU must adhere to a detailed application process that includes submitting essential documents such as trade licenses, income tax certificates, and bank solvency certificates. Once enlisted, vendors are eligible to participate in NSU’s procurement processes, which include e-tendering for various goods and services. This process underscores NSU’s commitment to transparency and efficiency in its operations.
Dr. Nafisa Noor is an accomplished academic with a PhD in Electrical Engineering from the University of Connecticut, specializing in semiconductor devices, nanotechnology, circuit modeling, and hardware security. Her research contributions have been recognized in prominent journals such as IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, Beilstein Journal of Nanotechnology, and AIP Advances. In addition to her research, Dr. Noor is a dedicated educator, teaching courses like Electrical Circuits, Digital Logic Design, Junior and Senior Design Projects, Semiconductor Devices, and Nanotechnology. For further information about her research and publications, you can visit her Google Scholar profile.
Dr. Nafisa Noor is associated with North South University in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where she contributes to the university’s academic environment through her teaching and research. For any professional inquiries or further details, North South University can be reached at registrar@northsouth.edu or through their contact number +880-2-55668200.
Dr. Md. Mainul Hossain is an accomplished analytical and environmental chemist, currently serving as an Associate Professor in the Department of Biology and Chemistry at North South University (NSU), Dhaka. He earned his Ph.D. from the University of Montana, USA, in 2014, where his research was supervised by Professor Garon C. Smith. His primary research focuses on aqueous equilibrium chemistry, with an emphasis on creating pedagogic tools for teaching this subject to undergraduate and graduate students. His innovative research, which integrates 3D surface visualizations for complex chemical interactions, has been widely recognized and featured in the Journal of Chemical Education and at national meetings of the American Chemical Society (ACS).
Prior to joining NSU in May 2015, Dr. Hossain was a Graduate Research and Teaching Assistant at the University of Montana, where he played a key role in peer-led teaching initiatives for introductory and organic chemistry courses. He also served as a research chemist at Exonics Technology Center in Dhaka, analyzing water samples for arsenic contamination under international collaborations funded by organizations like WHO, UNICEF, and the CDC.
Dr. Hossain’s work extends beyond academia to public service, having served on the Air Quality Advisory Council (AQAC) of Missoula City-County, Montana, for 18 months. His expertise contributed to developing policies aimed at improving air quality in the region. In addition to his research in environmental chemistry, he has explored synthetic inorganic chemistry, focusing on novel organometallic cluster compounds.
Dr. Hossain's commitment to chemical education has led to several published works with Professor Garon C. Smith, including a series of papers on the visualization of metal ion buffering, acid-base species distributions, and complexometric titrations using 3D topographic surfaces. His innovative approach to chemistry education has earned him recognition at international conferences, where he has presented his work on enhancing the understanding of pH and buffering concepts using on-the-fly 3D visualizations.
With a career spanning both academia and industry, Dr. Hossain continues to contribute to the fields of environmental chemistry, chemical education, and public health. His interdisciplinary research, teaching experience, and active involvement in public policy highlight his diverse expertise and commitment to advancing science and education in Bangladesh and beyond.
Over the years, scholars have extensively analyzed various aspects of international relations, geopolitical dynamics, and the evolving global landscape. In recent works, such as "Responsibility to Protect and the BRICS: A Decade after the Intervention in Libya" (2022) and "Conflicts, Strategic Divergences and the Survival of Economic Groupings: Will China-India Conflicts Make the BRICS Obsolete?" (2022), the complexities of multilateral cooperation and its challenges have been explored, particularly in the context of BRICS nations. Earlier analyses, like "Does Realism Explain the Arab Spring? Neorealist Alliance Formation Theories and the Syrian Civil War" (2021), delve into theoretical frameworks that seek to explain significant political upheavals in the Middle East.
The geopolitical landscape has also been influenced by strategic policies, as evident in "President Trump’s Maximum Pressure Campaign and Iran’s Endgame" (2020) and "Why BRICS Is No Threat to Post-War Liberal World Order" (2020). These articles provide critical insights into the implications of national policies on regional stability and global order. In the broader context of Middle Eastern politics, "Chasing the Dreams: The Salman Doctrine and Saudi Arabia’s Bid for Regional Dominance" (2019) and "Western and Islamic International Theories: A Comparative Analysis" (2018) illustrate the intricate interplay of traditional power structures and emerging ideologies.
Furthermore, discussions around the Islamic State and regional security, highlighted in "The Challenge of the Islamic State" (2015) and "Politics, Economics and Saudi Military Intervention in Bahrain" (2013), shed light on the multifaceted nature of conflicts in the region. Other significant contributions include reflections on U.S. foreign policy, as noted in "President Obama’s Middle East Policy, 2009-2013" (2015), and analyses of historical contexts, such as "Federalism and State Disintegration: United Pakistan, 1947-1971" (2010).
The body of work also encompasses critical perspectives on international cooperation and humanitarian intervention, notably in "UN Intervention on Humanitarian Grounds: New Humanism or a Chaotic Political Doctrine" (1996) and "Post-Cold War UN Peacekeeping: Humanitarian Intervention and Other Issues" (1994). These insights are vital for understanding the evolution of international relations theories and their practical applications.
In addition to journal articles, the scholar has contributed to edited volumes, such as "Fifty Years of Bangladesh Foreign Policy: Continuity and Change" (2022) and "The Islamic State and its Viability" (2014), showcasing the relevance of regional studies in global discourse. Book reviews and bibliographical contributions further underline a commitment to scholarly discourse, while non-referred articles and commentaries, including "An Overhyped BRICS Summit" (2023) and "Trump Caught in Iran War Trap of His Own Making" (2019), reflect ongoing engagement with current affairs and their implications for global politics.
Dr. Md. Shoaib Chowdhury
Professor, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Dr. Md. Shoaib Chowdhury, a Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at North South University (NSU), has received the Best Paper Award in Environmental Engineering at the International Conference on Civil Engineering for Sustainable Development (ICEESD), which took place from 07-09 February 2024 at Kuet University of Engineering and Technology. His paper, co-authored with Chowdhury A. Hossain, is titled "Seasonal and Meteorological Influences on the Concentration of PM2.5 at CAMS-3 in Dhaka City Using Decadal Data." Congratulations to Professor Chowdhury on this esteemed recognition!
Dr. Md. Mamun Molla
Professor, Department of Mathematics & Physics
Professor Dr. Sharaban Thohura from Jagannath University has been awarded a one-year UGC Post-Doctoral Fellowship, under the supervision of Dr. Md. Mamun Molla, Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Physics. This is the first time UGC has approved such a fellowship at a private university, aimed at promoting quality higher education and research in Bangladesh. Congratulations to Dr. Molla for this unique opportunity and to Professor Dr. Thohura for her achievement!
Dr. Md. Ashraful Alam
Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences
NSU has launched a new journal, the Journal of Biosciences and Experimental Pharmacology (ISSN: 2960-284X), with its first issue published in December 2023 featuring six research articles. This initiative is led by Dr. Md. Ashraful Alam, Associate Professor in the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, who serves as the journal's Chief Editor. The journal is available in both print and electronic formats. Congratulations to Dr. Alam and the team on this successful publication, and we look forward to its future indexing!
Dr. Shazid Md. Sharker
Associate Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Dr. Shazid Md. Sharker has co-authored a notable article titled “NIR-light-triggered delivery of doxorubicin-loaded PLGA nanoparticles for synergistic cancer therapy on DMBA/TPA induced tumor-bearing mice,” published in the journal Material Advances on 20 September 2023. This research has been recognized by the "Journal of Materials Chemistry Blog" as "excellent work," with an interview featuring Dr. Shazid. Congratulations to him and his co-authors for this achievement!
Dr. Mahdy Rahman Chowdhury
Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Dr. Mahdy Rahman Chowdhury has been awarded the 2023 Galileo Galilei Medal Award from the International Commission for Optics for his significant contributions to optical and quantum mechanical manipulation under challenging circumstances. This prestigious award includes a silver medal, a citation, a cash donation of US$1,000, and assistance to present an invited paper at an ICO Congress. Congratulations to Professor Chowdhury on this remarkable accomplishment!
Dr. Md. Firoz Khan
Associate Professor, Department of Environmental Science and Management
Dr. Md. Firoz Khan has been honored with the Dr. M. A. Wazed Miah International Gold Medal Award-2022 in the "Scientist" category. The award ceremony took place on 03 October 2023 at the National Press Club. Congratulations to Professor Khan on this significant recognition!
Ms. Tania Rahman
Senior Lecturer, Department of English and Modern Languages
Ms. Tania Rahman presented a paper titled "Agency in the teaching of English language in higher education in Bangladesh: A justification for multilingual TESOL in Bangladeshi higher education" at the AILA 20th World Congress in Lyon, France, from 17-21 July 2023. She received one of the AILA Solidarity Awards 2023, recognizing her contributions as a scholar from an economically challenging background. Congratulations to Ms. Rahman for this prestigious acknowledgment!
Dr. Asad Karim Khan Priyo
Associate Professor, Department of Economics
Dr. Asad Karim Khan Priyo has successfully engaged in a CTRGC-funded research project titled "Experimental evaluation of life-skills curriculum for vulnerable students in Dhaka," co-investigated with Dr. Ridwan Karim from Wilfrid Laurier University, Canada. His project has received a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) "Insight Development Grant," totaling CA$24,170 for fiscal years 23/24 - 24/25. Congratulations to Professor Priyo and his colleagues on this important funding achievement!
Dr. Hasan Mahmud Reza
Dean, SHLS and Professor, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Dr. Hasan Mahmud Reza was elected as a Fellow of the Bangladesh Academy of Sciences (BAS) on 12 April 2023, an honor recognizing eminent scientists for their original contributions. Professor Reza, who joined NSU in 2007, will deliver an inaugural lecture at BAS. Congratulations on this national honor!
Dr. Ishrat Zakia Sultana
Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science & Sociology
Dr. Ishrat Zakia Sultana has concluded a collaborative research agreement with the University of Waterloo for a two-year project titled "Economic Recovery Policies for Sustainable and Equitable Digital School Teaching and Tutoring in Canada and Bangladesh." The NSU component of the project has secured a grant allocation of CAD 174,089. Congratulations to Dr. Sultana on this impactful research initiative!
Dr. Md. Jakariya
Professor, Department of Environmental Science & Management
As Principal Investigator, Dr. Md. Jakariya will lead a three-year research project entitled "Support for Spatial Surge Forecasting Using Artificial Intelligence and Community Knowledge for Inclusive and Transformative Early Actions (SURF-IT)," funded by the International Development Research Centre with CAD 1.5 million. The project aims to create an AI-based flood forecast model for tidal surges in coastal Bangladesh. Congratulations to Dr. Jakariya and his team on this significant endeavor!
Research Awards 2022 Ceremony
On 26 January 2023, twelve faculty members from NSU's four schools (SBE, SEPS, SHLS, SHSS) were recognized for research excellence at an award ceremony organized by the Office of Research-NSU. Each awardee received a gold, silver, or bronze medal based on merit, along with a certificate of recognition and a monetary award.
Gold Medalists:
Dr. Muhammad Sabbir Rahman (SBE)
Professor Mohammad Rashedur Rahman (SEPS)
Dr. Mohammad Delwer Hossain Hawlader (SHLS)
Dr. Hasan Muhammad Baniamin (SHSS)
Silver Medalists:
Dr. Sakib Bin Amin (SBE)
Professor Md. Mamun Molla (SEPS)
Professor Dipak Kumar Mitra (SHLS)
Professor Md. Rizwanul Islam (SHSS)
Bronze Medalists:
Professor Mahmud Akhter Shareef (SBE)
Dr. Mahdy Rahman Chowdhury (SEPS)
Professor Hasan Mahmud Reza (SHLS)
Dr. Mohammad Bulbul Ashraf Siddiqi (SHSS)
Research Collaborations and Grants
Dr. Md. Nurul Kabir
Associate Professor, Dept. of Accounting & Finance
Dr. Nazlee Siddiqui
Associate Professor, Dept. of Management
Quazi Tafsirul Islam
Senior Lecturer, Dept. of Management
MetLife Bangladesh and the Department of Accounting and Finance (DAF) of the School of Business and Economics (SBE) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for a national-scale research project on the factors influencing insurance purchase intention and behavior, as well as the level of insurance literacy in Bangladesh. The research will utilize qualitative and quantitative methods, including surveys and in-depth interviews. The findings are expected to contribute significantly to the development of the insurance sector in Bangladesh, aiding in achieving at least four Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). MetLife Bangladesh will fully fund this project with a grant amount of BDT 1,500,000.
Dr. Hasan Mahmud Reza
Dean, SHLS and Professor, Dept. of Pharmaceutical Sciences
Dr. Ahmed Hossain
Professor, Dept. of Public Health
The NSU Global Health Institute (NGHI), in partnership with Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), has been awarded a project grant of BDT 1.6 crore from the Bangladesh Government's AIDS/STD program. The project is titled "Mapping Study and Size Estimation of Key Population in Bangladesh for HIV Programs in 2022-23," aiming to identify high-risk areas for key populations, including sex workers, the hijra/transgender community, and people who inject drugs. Dr. Hasan Mahmud Reza and Dr. Ahmed Hossain will lead this crucial project from NSU.
Dr. Mohammad Sujauddin
Assistant Professor, Department of Environmental Science & Management
Dr. Mohammad Sujauddin and his team have published an article titled "Environmental externalities of the COVID-19 lockdown: Insights for sustainability planning in the Anthropocene" in the esteemed journal Science of The Total Environment (IF: 6.551). The study analyzes the dynamics of environmental components during the pandemic, emphasizing the need for policy reforms and prioritization of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in a post-pandemic context. Congratulations to Dr. Sujauddin and his team for this collaborative achievement with scholars from various international institutions.
Financial Aid Overview
Financial aid refers to monetary assistance from institutional, governmental, or private sources designed to help students afford educational costs. This assistance can take various forms, including academic scholarships, tuition waivers, study loans, and student employment opportunities.
At North South University (NSU), financial aid and scholarships are available to help students manage their university expenses. How students will pay for their education is a critical factor in choosing an institution. The Financial Aid Office (FAO) at NSU understands the financial challenges students face and is committed to helping them plan for their future careers. The university prioritizes financial aid and scholarships, striving to meet the financial needs of eligible students.
Administration of Financial Aid
The comprehensive Financial Aid/Scholarship Program at NSU is overseen by a Financial Assistance Committee (FAC) comprising members from the Board of Trustees and high-ranking university officials. The NSU student aid program encourages students to apply for monetary assistance if they believe they require help to attend the university.
Since its inception in 1993, the FAO has been responsible for coordinating and organizing the overall Financial Aid/Scholarship Program. In 2022, a total of 4,371 students received full or partial financial aid, including:
1,254 students granted full (100%) tuition waivers
510 wards of freedom fighters
415 students received 75% waivers
1,372 students received 50% waivers
1,330 students received 25% waivers
Furthermore, 1,490 children of freedom fighters are allowed to study under full free studentships as per the Private University Act of 2010. Additionally, a total grant of Tk. 170 crore was disbursed as a COVID Special Waiver to all students from Summer 2020 to Spring 2022, excluding regular tuition waivers. Since inception, NSU has distributed approximately Tk. 338 crore in financial assistance through Fall 2022 semester.
Financial Aid Categories
Types of Financial Aid/Scholarship Available
NSU offers financial aid and scholarships to support a diverse student community. Eligible categories include:
Financial Aid for Wards of Freedom Fighters (WoFF) (Quota-based waiver)
Merit-based Tuition Waivers/Scholarships based on previous academic attainment and admission test results
Merit-based Tuition Waivers/Scholarships for high academic achievement at NSU
Financial Aid Based on Need (humanitarian grounds)
Merit-Need Based Waivers/Scholarships
Financial Aid for Siblings studying together at NSU
Work-Study Programs for student employment
Financial Aid Eligibility
Eligible candidates for financial aid at NSU must maintain outstanding academic performance as follows:
Undergraduate applicants securing a top 10 position in the NSU admission test are eligible for a 100% tuition waiver.
A GPA of 5.00 (excluding the 4th subject) in either SSC or HSC, and at least a GPA of 4.80 in the other, along with satisfactory NSU Admission Test performance.
Candidates with 7 'A's in O-level exams and 3 'A's in A-level exams, alongside satisfactory NSU Admission Test scores.
MBA and MPH applicants with the highest scores in the NSU admission test are entitled to a 50% tuition waiver upon admission.
NSU graduates with a CGPA of 3.80 at the undergraduate level are entitled to a 50% tuition waiver for graduate-level programs.
General students must complete a minimum of 9 credits and maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.75 for undergraduates, and 3.25 for graduates with 6 credits.
Aid for Siblings
Financial assistance is available for siblings studying together at NSU, granting a 25% tuition waiver for each sibling, subject to eligibility and formal application.
Freedom Fighter Quota
Students availing of the freedom fighter quota must apply with the following documents, as per the Ministry of Liberation War Affairs:
Copy of Offer Letter (for newly admitted students)
Attested copy of Provisional Certificate (Shamoik Shonod) or BAMUSH Shonod of the freedom fighter
Attested copy of Bangladesh Government Gazette of the freedom fighter
Attested copy of Lal Muktibarta of the freedom fighter
Attested copy of the National ID Card (NID) of the freedom fighter
Attested copy of the Birth Certificate or SSC Certificate of the freedom fighter
Attested copy of the Birth Certificate of the student
Attested copy of SSC/HSC Certificate/Passport/NID Card of the student
Financial Aid Application Form (available at Prime Bank Ltd., Bashundhara Branch, Dhaka only)
The freedom fighter quota is subject to verification by the concerned Ministry, with priority given to orphans and children of deceased or wounded freedom fighters. To maintain the quota, students must achieve satisfactory academic performance, with graduate students needing a minimum CGPA of 3.00 and undergraduate students 2.75. Students can apply for financial aid in all semesters during admission.
At North South University (NSU), financial aid is available for students, including those eligible for the freedom fighter quota, which is subject to verification by the concerned Ministry. The Financial Aid Office (FAO) processes applications on a first-come, first-served basis, with priority given to orphans, children of deceased or wounded freedom fighters, and those whose parents are critically ill. To maintain this aid, undergraduate students must achieve a minimum CGPA of 2.75, while graduate students must maintain a CGPA of 3.00 to continue receiving financial assistance. Applications for financial aid can be submitted in all semesters, but students must apply formally and comply with FAO guidelines.
Financial aid applications are invited every semester, with notifications issued well in advance. Students seeking assistance must fill out the prescribed application form available at the Prime Bank Bashundhara Branch, Dhaka, along with a fee of Tk. 1,000. The deadlines for submitting applications are announced each semester, with the Spring Semester application period starting in the third week of January and the Summer Semester applications in the third week of July.
To maintain financial aid or scholarships, recipients must demonstrate satisfactory academic progress, achieving at least a CGPA of 2.75 for undergraduates and 3.25 for graduates. Additionally, undergraduate recipients of 50% and 75% tuition waivers must maintain a CGPA of 3.00, while those with 100% waivers must uphold a minimum CGPA of 3.25. Students must register for a minimum number of credits each year and can only receive aid for courses required for their degree.
Students who withdraw from any course or drop a semester may not receive financial assistance beyond the approved period, which is generally four years for undergraduate programs and two years for graduate programs. Financial aid will be discontinued if recipients fail to meet academic standards, are absent without authorization, or do not complete their degree requirements within the stipulated time.
For international students, the enrollment process begins with submitting an application to the Office of Admissions along with necessary documents such as transcripts, a passport copy, and health check-ups. After verification and acceptance, applicants must fill out an online application form and pay the application fee. Once accepted, students should apply for a student visa and follow up with the Office of External Affairs upon arrival in Bangladesh.
Overall, NSU aims to support its students through various financial aid programs while maintaining rigorous academic standards to ensure success in their educational pursuits. For further information, students can contact the Financial Aid Office or visit the NSU website.
The Office of International Affairs (OIA) at North South University (NSU) provides vital support and resources for international students, ensuring a smooth transition and successful academic experience in Bangladesh. The university prioritizes equality and fairness, offering scholarships to deserving international students based on their academic excellence. For instance, in June 2018, NSU announced scholarships for ten meritorious Nepalese students during a delegation visit. Students interested in applying for scholarships are encouraged to visit the Financial Aid Office, located on level #03 of the Administrative Building.
In terms of admissions, NSU maintains a uniform tuition fee for all students, irrespective of nationality, to uphold its commitment to fairness. Detailed information on tuition fees can be found on the NSU website.
The OIA collaborates closely with the Special Branch Police (SBP) to ensure that international students comply with local regulations. This includes providing essential information such as students' names, nationalities, entry dates, addresses, passport details, visa types, and purposes of stay. The International Affairs Officer acts as an interpreter, assisting students in communicating with the SBP to facilitate smooth verification processes.
The OIA also serves as a valuable resource for international students by offering guidance on admission procedures, scholarships, visa extensions, and various forms related to immigration. Students can find answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the OIA webpage and can reach out for personal assistance during dedicated office hours.
Furthermore, NSU provides a range of facilities and support systems to enhance the student experience. This includes a fully automated library, a medical center, student counseling services, and recreational facilities like a Sports & Fitness Center. NSU aims to foster a supportive and welcoming environment for its diverse student body, ensuring that all international students have access to necessary resources for their academic and personal well-being.
For any personal concerns, such as harassment or bullying, the OIA encourages students to seek help from the Proctor’s Office, reaffirming its commitment to the welfare of all students.
Overall, the Office of International Affairs is dedicated to making NSU a home for international students, providing them with the resources, guidance, and support they need to thrive academically and personally during their time in Bangladesh. For more information, students can contact the OIA via phone or email, or visit the office located on level #5 of the Administrative Building.
North South University (NSU) welcomes a diverse community of international students and provides essential services to ensure their safety and well-being during their stay. The International Affairs Office (IAO) plays a crucial role in assisting these students, particularly in obtaining vital documents for visa extensions and other administrative needs. Students can request recommendation letters, registration certificates, and international student lists, which are necessary for security clearances and visa processing. To receive these documents, students are encouraged to contact the International Affairs Officer during designated hours or by appointment.
In case of medical emergencies, students should contact the NSU Medical Center, reaching out to Senior Medical Officers for immediate assistance. NSU has also listed nearby hospitals and pharmacies, ensuring students have access to medical care when needed. For safety-related issues, students are advised to report to the NSU Security Office or the nearest police station.
NSU emphasizes the importance of adhering to local customs and regulations. Students are urged to maintain vigilance regarding their personal belongings, avoid smoking and alcohol on campus, and dress respectfully. General guidelines recommend carrying copies of important documents, being cautious in public spaces, and staying informed about local news, especially during politically sensitive periods.
The visa extension process requires students to initiate contact with the International Affairs Officer a month prior to their visa expiration. After submitting necessary documents and payment, they will receive recommendation letters for the visa extension process. If students need to leave the country urgently, they must follow a separate exit visa procedure.
Overall, NSU strives to create a supportive environment for its international students, facilitating a smooth transition to life in Bangladesh while promoting safety and compliance with local laws.
The NSU Institutional Review Board/Ethics Review Committee (IRB/ERC) comprises distinguished faculty members dedicated to overseeing ethical standards in research. Leading the committee is Dr. Dipak Kumar Mitra, Chair and Dean of the School of Health and Life Sciences, along with Vice-Chair Dr. Kazi Nadim Hasan from the Department of Biochemistry & Microbiology. Other notable members include Dr. Hasan Mahmud Reza from the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Dr. Md. Mahbubur Rahman, Professor & Chair of the same department, and Dr. Mahbubur Rahman, Professor of Political Science & Sociology and Chair of History and Philosophy. The committee also features Dr. Nova Ahmed, Dr. Muhammad Sabbir Rahman from the Department of Marketing & International Business, Dr. Alima Aktar, Dr. Nadira Sultana Kakoly, Dr. Syed Mortuza Asif Ehsan, and Dr. Nur Newaz Khan, contributing their expertise from various disciplines.
The NSU Office of Research, located on Level 6 of the Admin Building, facilitates the IRB/ERC's activities. It can be contacted via email at mostafizur.rahman09@northsouth.edu or tahsinul.haque@northsouth.edu, and the Director can be reached at director.research@northsouth.edu.
In addition to research oversight, NSU currently has multiple job openings, including positions for Lab Instructors, Directors of Operations & Maintenance, and IT roles, all with a deadline of October 23, 2024.
Furthermore, the NSU MBA Club has established itself as a prominent platform since its inception in 1997, fostering corporate and academic connections while empowering MBA and Master's students. The club organizes various events, including the National Start-up Expo, leadership seminars, and discussions on critical topics such as women empowerment and stress management. Key figures in the club include Faculty Advisor Dr. F J Mohaimeen and President Farita Binte Hassan, alongside other elected officers.
The Office of the Vice Chancellor, led by Prof. Abdul Hannan Chowdhury, and supported by various assistants and officers, plays a crucial role in the administration of the university, ensuring smooth operations and effective communication.
The Office of External Affairs at North South University is led by Dr. Samiksha Koirala, the Director, supported by staff including Prodip Kumar Sarker, an Assistant Officer, Mehedi Masud Sumon, a Senior Officer, and several others in various roles such as Alumni Affairs Officer and International Affairs Officer.
The Public Relations Office, directed by Rafe Sadnan Adel, includes Assistant Directors Nusrat Islam, Md. Faijullah, and Zarin Tasnim, along with Officer Jasmin Juthy. The Proctor's Office is headed by Ar. Shaila Joarder, with a team of Assistant Proctors, including Syed Asif Hossain and Nasmin Jabin Noor.
In the Registrar's Office, Dr. Ahmed Tazmeen serves as the Registrar, supported by Deputy Director A.K.M Mahfuzur Rahman and a team of officers, including Sonia Hossain and Mohiuddin Ahmed. The office is responsible for faculty HR, with personnel like Ms. Khaleda Akter and Md. Samiul Islam handling administrative tasks.
The Controller of Examinations, Ms. Afruza Sultana, oversees examination processes with the help of Assistant Controllers and Officers.
Administration is led by Brig Gen (Rtd) Md Nurul Momen Khan, with a dedicated team focused on logistics and security. The IT department, directed by Mahbubul H. Sarker, ensures the university’s technological needs are met, with roles ranging from software engineers to network managers.
The Financial Aid Office is managed by Md. Raquibul Islam, providing assistance to students in need, while Internal Affairs, directed by A. H. Lutful Hassan, oversees procurement processes through various officers and procurement staff.
Overall, North South University’s organizational structure reflects a commitment to efficient administration and support services for its faculty and students.
North South University (NSU), located in Bashundhara, Dhaka, Bangladesh, offers a comprehensive array of services and facilities to support its students and faculty. The university's administration is comprised of dedicated staff across various departments. Notable personnel include Ms. Fatama Islam Keya and Ishrat Kabir Annya, both serving as Officers, alongside Ms. Mahmuda Begum and Mahmudunnabi in the Department of History & Philosophy, and Ms. Nahid Sanjana and Ms. Farjana Abedin in the Department of Mathematics & Physics.
NSU is committed to student well-being, evidenced by its Student Counseling Center (SCC), overseen by Director Mrs. Fariha Harun. The SCC provides mental health support through individual and group counseling sessions, led by a team of qualified counselors specializing in psychosocial and clinical psychology. Appointments can be made via email, ensuring that students receive the necessary support for their emotional well-being.
The university also features various facilities designed for student comfort and engagement. The Student Boy's Lounge provides a relaxed environment for studying and socializing, while the Study Hall in the library encourages quiet academic work. NSU's Medical Center, located in the SAC Building, offers essential health services, including consultations, first aid, and emergency care, staffed by Dr. Ahmad Munir Hussain and Dr. Lubna Mariam.
For physical fitness, the NSU Sports & Fitness Center boasts a multipurpose gym and basketball court, staffed by trained associates. The university also has a spacious cafeteria serving diverse food options, a recreation center with gaming facilities, and a prayer room for spiritual needs.
Catering to students' extracurricular interests, NSU hosts several student clubs, including the Communications Club and the North South University Athletics Club (NSUAC). The NSUAC, established in 1995, organizes numerous sporting events, including the NSU Cricket League and NSU Football League, fostering talent and sportsmanship among students. The Communications Club provides opportunities for developing skills in writing, public speaking, and journalism, while producing the student-run magazine English Matters.
Overall, NSU emphasizes a holistic educational experience, combining academic excellence with supportive services and vibrant extracurricular activities to foster student growth and community.
At North South University, students have the opportunity to engage with a variety of clubs that foster personal and professional development.
The Cine and Drama Club, founded on September 22, 1996, is one of the oldest clubs at the university. With the motto "Explore Yourself," it serves as a hub for cinema and drama enthusiasts. The club organizes drama performances, film festivals, seminars, workshops, and discussions to promote the appreciation of theatrical arts.
The Computer and Engineering Club (NSU CEC) aims to "Create Tech Leaders of Tomorrow." Established in Fall 2015 through the merger of several reputed clubs, NSU CEC plays a vital role in promoting the university’s image in the tech world. The club organizes events like Cybernauts, Info Fest, and Hackathons, focusing on the study of IT and Telecom industries in Bangladesh.
The Debate Club, established in 1993, is renowned for its success in both national and international debate competitions. With a strong culture of both Bengali and English debate, the club has earned numerous accolades, positioning itself as a top contender in the Sub-continental region. It actively participates in various tournaments and hosts seminars and workshops to enhance public speaking skills.
Each club is guided by dedicated faculty advisors and has its own set of elected officials, including presidents, vice presidents, secretaries, and treasurers. For instance, the Cine and Drama Club's faculty advisor is Preyanka Nath, with Md. Muhtasim-An-Nafi serving as president. The Computer and Engineering Club is led by President Moinul Haque Najim and Faculty Advisor Md. Shahriar Hussain. The Debate Club, under the guidance of Faculty Advisor Omar Nasif Abdullah, has Farzan Noor Chowdhury as its president.
The Earth Club, established in 1996, is dedicated to environmental advocacy. Its primary objective is to raise awareness through workshops, seminars, and events that celebrate significant international environmental dates like Earth Day and World Environment Day. The club organizes activities such as "A Tree for Free," "Plants for the Future," "Environmental School Campaign," and eco-trips. They also publish an annual magazine, Green Reflections, which provides insights and stories about the state of the world’s environment. The club is led by President Bushra Noor, with Faculty Advisor Shiyan Sadik.
The Ethics & Diversity Club (NSUEDC) aims to promote integrity and diversity within the campus community. With the motto "Transforming the nation for future generations," the club engages students in seminars featuring experts, national competitions addressing social issues, and grassroots action campaigns. Dr. Zerina Shabnaz Akkas serves as the faculty advisor, while Prakash Debnath is the president.
The Finance Club is focused on enhancing the personal and professional skills of undergraduate students in the Department of Accounting and Finance. Founded in August 2014, the club has successfully organized national events such as the Optimity National Investment and Portfolio Management Competition and Blueprints, Bangladesh's first national financial modeling competition. They also publish an annual financial magazine called Bull and Bear. The club's leadership includes President Nurul Ahnaf Ihsas and Faculty Advisor Mr. Muhammad Nasiruddin.
The Human Resources Club, founded in March 2015, connects students with international HR practices. It facilitates learning through events like "HR Speaks Out" and competitions aimed at bridging the gap between academia and corporate life. The club has grown from three members to about 300, promoting ethical leadership and professional development. Shaikh Rishad Ul Arab serves as the president, with Faculty Advisor Tasnim Tarannum.
Finally, the Law & Mooting Society (NSULMS), established on April 16, 2017, focuses on advocacy excellence and legal knowledge. It organizes mooting competitions, training sessions, and community engagement activities like the Bangladesh Law Students Symposium and the NSU Law Fest. Zannatin Tazri is the president, with Nasmin Jabin Noor as the faculty advisor.
The Marketing and International Business Club (MIBC), established on July 2, 2019, operates under the Department of Marketing and International Business, the university's largest department. MIBC aims to provide a diversified platform for members to nurture their talents in marketing and international business while fostering a barrier-less environment for the exchange of ideas globally. The club acts as a bridge between academic knowledge and corporate experience, partnering with multinational companies to enhance members' practical skills. Despite challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, MIBC has successfully transitioned to online events, organizing seminars, workshops, and online skill development programs. Noteworthy activities include the Opsonatus marketing competition and the upcoming MarXcellence digital marketing competition.
Another creative outlet is the NSU Art & Photography Club (NSUAPC), which has been active since 1997. This club focuses on developing quality photographers and artists while creating a network among professionals and amateurs. NSUAPC organizes various events, including national and international field trips, photography exhibitions, and inter-university competitions. Their flagship event, the International Inter University Photography Competition (IIUPE), is recognized as the largest photography exhibition organized by a student body in Southeast Asia.
The Public Health and Sciences Club (PHSC), established in 2006, is dedicated to promoting health and well-being within the NSU community and beyond. The club focuses on developing future public health professionals by advocating for awareness of emerging health issues and organizing health camps, screening programs, and wellness initiatives. Plans for a new Wellness Program will include workshops on stress management, nutrition, and mindfulness.
Culturally, the North South University Sangskritik Sangathan organizes various cultural programs throughout the year, celebrating events like Pohela Falgun and Pohela Boishakh.
Lastly, the Young Economists Forum (YEF), founded in 1998, provides a creative base for students to engage in economic discussions and skill development. YEF organizes seminars, workshops, and competitions, encouraging dialogue on social and economic issues while publishing student-led magazines, such as Equilibrium and YEF Chronicle.
The North South Young Entrepreneurs Society (NSU YES!) is the premier business club of North South University, established in 1994. It focuses on fostering an entrepreneurial mindset and ethical leadership among students from various universities through diverse events. Notable events include "Masters of Ideation," "Ad Maker Bangladesh," and "NSUers Meet Corporate Icons," with the first two attracting hundreds of teams nationwide and the latter serving thousands of NSU students. NSU YES! bridges the gap between business undergraduates and the corporate world, providing real-time exposure to corporate environments and cultivating ethical leadership and competition among students.
For inquiries, you can connect with the NSU YES! team through the following contacts: Faculty Advisor Mirza M. Ferdous, President Sarah Marzia (sarah.marzia@northsouth.edu), General Secretary Md. Samir Ashraf Khan (samir.khan@northsouth.edu), Treasurer Ebtida Bin Jashim Chowdhury (ebitda.chowdhury@northsouth.edu), Vice-President (Operations) Md. Nadimul Kabir (nadimul.kabir@northsouth.edu), Joint Secretary Mithila Talukder Tanny (mithila.tanny@northsouth.edu), Vice-President (External Affairs) M Tanvir Rahman Porag (tanvir.porag@northsouth.edu), and Vice-President (Marketing & Branding) Talib Hossain (talib.hossain@northsouth.edu). You can also find NSU YES! on social media under the handle nsuyes.
The Office of External Affairs (OEA) at North South University, established in February 2015, aims to enhance the institution's image both nationally and internationally. Operating under the supervision of the Vice-Chancellor, the OEA serves as a bridge between NSU and esteemed global institutions. For contact, you can reach them at +880-2-55668200, via fax at +880-2-55668202, or email oea@northsouth.edu. More information can be found on their website at www.northsouth.edu, and the physical address is North South University, Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229, Bangladesh.
If you have specific inquiries about the Office of Alumni Affairs (OAA), you can call +880-2-55668200, Ext 1064, or email mehedi.soikat@northsouth.edu. For information regarding alumni association registration, you can refer to the OAA webpage.
The OEA publishes a newsletter called "The Bridge," which features alumni-related news and can be accessed online. Additionally, the OEA has been building networks with NGOs and INGOs for research collaborations, joint publications, training programs, and internships since October 2020.
The current team at the OEA includes Director Dr. Katherine Li, International Affairs Officer Ms. Samina Alam Miti, Alumni Affairs Officer Mr. Sk. Fardin Yaman, Senior Officer Mr. Mehedi Masud Sumon, Reporter Ms. Zafreen Islam, Illustrator Mr. Md. Hafiz Uzzaman, and International Ambassador Sadia Jeesan Ayesha.
The Office of External Affairs (OEA) at North South University (NSU) is dedicated to fostering global collaboration and connectivity among students, faculty, and alumni. With the vision of "Bridging Global Knowledge," the OEA strives to build mutually rewarding relationships with a diverse range of stakeholders. Its mission centers on facilitating exchanges between NSU and foreign universities while providing a platform for global alumni to maintain connections. Located in Bashundhara, Dhaka, the OEA can be contacted via phone at +880-2-55668200 or via email at oea@northsouth.edu.
In tandem with the OEA, the Office of Graduate Studies plays a crucial role in enhancing the quality of graduate education at NSU. Established in January 2015, this office oversees various graduate programs, including Master's and PhD degrees, across multiple disciplines. Under the leadership of Professor Dr. Biswas Karabi Farhana, the Office aims to promote coherent graduate curricula, support academic units, and ensure the graduation of competent graduates.
NSU offers a diverse array of graduate programs designed to equip students with the necessary skills for success in an increasingly globalized job market. Programs range from Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Executive MBA to specialized degrees in engineering, health sciences, humanities, and social sciences. Admission requirements include a four-year bachelor’s degree, a minimum GPA of 2.75, English proficiency, and relevant work experience for specific programs.
To further enhance academic excellence, the Office of Graduate Studies actively promotes research initiatives and graduate seminars that expose students to scholarly discussions and presentations. Additionally, a Graduate Council comprising key academic leaders advises on matters related to graduate studies and research.
North South University is committed to providing quality graduate education that fosters both personal and professional development, making it a prominent institution for aspiring scholars and professionals. For inquiries, the Office of Graduate Studies can be reached at graduate.admissions@northsouth.edu, and prospective students are encouraged to contact Graduate Program Coordinators for more information on specific programs.
The North South University Proctor's Office is dedicated to fostering a safe and respectful teaching and learning environment for all students and faculty members. This office oversees student discipline and maintains campus civility, handling unique disciplinary violations such as sexual harassment, drug abuse, physical violence, academic dishonesty, theft, and property damage. The Proctorial Body, which consists of one Proctor and six Assistant Proctors, holds the authority to enforce the university's Code of Conduct both on campus and during university-organized events.
When conflicts or disciplinary misconduct arise, students can approach an Assistant Proctor or the Proctor to lodge complaints, ensuring that each case is treated with the necessary attention and confidentiality. The Proctorial Body conducts thorough investigations, taking written statements from both the victim and the assailant, and acting according to the university's code. Serious cases that require stringent punishment are escalated to the Disciplinary Committee, the highest authority for student disciplinary matters.
To maintain order, an Assistant Proctor is assigned daily for campus surveillance, making rounds to ensure compliance with the established code. The university emphasizes free expression while also discouraging disruption and intolerance. Disruptive actions that hinder university operations are not tolerated, and any acts of violence, such as physical abuse or intimidation, are strictly prohibited.
Additionally, the university maintains a smoke-free campus, with penalties for violations. Promotional activities on campus are subject to scrutiny by the Proctor's Office, ensuring that they align with university ethics and regulations. Academic dishonesty, social misconduct, property damage, drug-related offenses, indecent behavior, and actions that tarnish the university's image are explicitly defined as violations of the Code of Conduct, with corresponding penalties.
Sexual harassment and associations with unlawful groups are serious offenses that can lead to expulsion. The Proctor's Office strives to create a safe and conducive learning environment while upholding the integrity and image of North South University.
The Code of Conduct outlines that any violation may lead to necessary disciplinary actions, with authority resting primarily with the Vice-Chancellor and the Disciplinary Committee. The Committee is empowered to impose sanctions, including warnings and expulsion, based on the severity of the offense. Specific offenses warranting immediate expulsion include severe infractions such as physical abuse, arson, and forgery, while repeated offenses like plagiarism and falsification of educational data may also lead to serious consequences.
Students seeking to appeal disciplinary decisions must submit a written request within five days of notification. The Code specifies penalties for offenses related to forgery and misuse of identification documents, with fines ranging from BDT 5,000 to BDT 35,000. Serious violations, particularly those involving drugs, carry a minimum punishment of a one-semester suspension.
All other violations are addressed through hearings conducted by the Disciplinary Committee. Students are informed of the charges in writing before the hearing, which is held privately unless otherwise requested. The hearing process emphasizes fairness, allowing for evidence presentation and witness testimonies. A written report detailing the charges, evidence, findings, and recommended sanctions is produced post-hearing.
Recent disciplinary actions from the 69th Disciplinary Committee meeting highlighted various offenses. For instance, students found guilty of theft faced expulsion or suspension, alongside monetary fines. Other violations, including academic dishonesty and sexual harassment, also resulted in severe penalties ranging from written warnings to expulsion, reflecting the university's commitment to maintaining a safe and respectful academic environment.
The Disciplinary Committee of North South University has made several decisions in response to recent violations of the Code of Conduct. The following actions have been taken:
Student ID: 191 2066 649
Offense: Theft (Section 2.17)
Action: Suspended for one semester.
Student ID: 191 2054 042
Offense: Threat (Section 2.3) & Physical Abuse (Section 2.7)
Action: Received a written warning.
Student ID: 202 1742 611
Offense: Threat (Section 2.3) & Physical Abuse (Section 2.7)
Action: Received a written warning.
Student ID: 172 1268 020
Offense: Tarnishing University Image (Section 2.18)
Action: Received a written warning.
The university is committed to maintaining a safe and respectful environment for all students, emphasizing the importance of upholding the principles outlined in the Code of Conduct.
For inquiries or further assistance, please reach out to the Proctor's Office:
Location:
Level 5, Admin Building
Plot# 15, Block# B
Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229, Bangladesh
Phone:
+880-2-55668200 Extn: 1142
Email:
proctor@northsouth.edu
Assistant Proctors:
Syed Asif Hossain
Email: Syed.hossain@northsouth.edu
Nasmin Jabin Noor
Email: nasmin.noor@northsouth.edu
Kazi Fahmida Rahman
Email: kazi.rahman06@northsouth.edu
Md. Al-Amin
Email: md.alamin@northsouth.edu
Sheikh Mohammad Rabby
Email: sheikh.rabby@northsouth.edu
Meshbaul Hassan Chowdhury
Email: meshbaul.chowdhury@northsouth.edu
Assistant to the Proctor:
Rakib Ahmed
Email: rakib.ahmed@northsouth.edu
For complaints or to report violations of the university’s policies on gender-based discrimination or harassment, students can contact the NSU Complaint Committee at:
Email:
pshc@northsouth.edu
complaint.pshc@northsouth.edu
The Registrar's Office at North South University (NSU) serves as the central hub for all academic activities, ensuring integrity through service. Acting as the first point of contact for enrolled students, the office addresses a wide range of queries and issues, either resolving them directly or forwarding them to the appropriate departments. Regular maintenance and verification of student records, scheduling classes, and updating the academic calendar are core responsibilities. The office also plays a crucial role in organizing orientation and convocation programs, facilitating key university meetings, and communicating important notifications to students and faculty.
Key services offered by the Registrar's Office include course waivers, credit transfers, course exclusions, student information updates, ID unblocking for various reasons, semester drops (both general and medical), readmission, department changes, time extensions, and new RFID card issuance. Additionally, the office manages requests for changes related to absent students, thesis conversions, grade discrepancies, curriculum information updates, photo changes for convocation, admission cancellations, document checking, and scholarship information updates.
The Registrar's Office is staffed by a dedicated team, including the Registrar, Deputy Director, Assistant Registrars, officers, and support staff, all committed to facilitating student success. They maintain regular office hours from 9 AM to 5 PM, Sunday to Thursday, and are closed on Fridays, Saturdays, and government holidays.
In addition to student services, NSU has various research centers and initiatives aimed at advancing knowledge in contemporary global health, socio-cultural studies, business research, and policy governance. The Office of Research-NSU oversees grant applications and facilitates interdisciplinary research collaborations. Centers like the Center for Peace Studies, the China-South Asia Center for Socio-Cultural Studies, and the South Asian Institute of Policy and Governance aim to address pressing issues through innovative research and community engagement, contributing to NSU’s mission of promoting social justice and sustainability.
For any inquiries or requests related to these services, students and faculty can reach out to the Registrar's Office via email at registrarsoffice@northsouth.edu or contact specific personnel directly using their provided email addresses and extensions.
The Office of Research at North South University (NSU) operates as the central hub for research administration under the Office of the Vice Chancellor. Its primary responsibilities include formulating regulatory policies and procedures that govern both basic and applied research across the university and enhancing internal and external grant opportunities for core faculty. The Office of Research coordinates the activities of four School Scientific Review Committees (SRCs), which assess the scientific merit of faculty research protocols associated with grant applications. Additionally, it manages the ethics clearance process through two university-wide committees: the NSU Institutional Review Board/Ethics Review Committee (IRB/ERC) and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), with each chairperson reporting to the Director of the Office of Research.
Located at Room 625, Level 6 of the Admin Building, the Office of Research can be contacted via email at mostafizur.rahman09@northsouth.edu or tahsinul.haque@northsouth.edu, with a phone line available at +880-2-55668200, Ext: 6464, 6465. The current director, Prof. Dr. Norman Kenneth Swazo, brings a wealth of experience in philosophy and ethics to the role, having previously held various academic positions and consulted for international organizations.
NSU is committed to fostering sustainable development through research, striving to become a globally recognized center of excellence in higher education. The university's mission includes diversifying research initiatives, supporting national research strategies, ensuring research integrity, and promoting collaboration with various institutions and industries.
The Financial Aid Office at NSU plays a critical role in assisting students with educational costs through various monetary support programs, including scholarships and tuition waivers. Since its inception, NSU has disbursed significant financial aid, with a total of Tk. 338 crore allocated to support students from diverse backgrounds. The comprehensive financial aid program includes various categories, such as assistance for the wards of freedom fighters, merit-based scholarships, and need-based financial aid.
The eligibility criteria for financial aid are rigorous, rewarding students with outstanding academic records and offering support based on various factors, including academic performance, financial need, and sibling enrollment at NSU. The commitment to supporting deserving students reflects NSU's dedication to ensuring accessible education for all.
North South University (NSU) provides a range of financial aid options to support students in their academic endeavors. The university is committed to making education accessible to all eligible students through various programs, including tuition waivers and scholarships.
Eligibility Criteria for Financial Aid
To qualify for financial aid, candidates must meet specific academic criteria:
O-Level and A-Level Achievements: Students who achieve 7 'A's in their O-level exams and 3 'A's in their A-levels, alongside a satisfactory score on the NSU Admission Test, are eligible for financial assistance.
Tuition Waivers
NSU offers several tuition waiver opportunities:
MBA and MPH Programs: Applicants with the highest scores in the NSU admission test are entitled to a 50% tuition waiver.
NSU Graduates: Graduates with a CGPA of 3.80 or higher at the undergraduate level are eligible for a 50% tuition waiver when enrolling in graduate studies.
General Students
For general students seeking financial aid:
Undergraduate Students: Must complete a minimum of 9 credits and maintain a CGPA of 2.75.
Graduate Students: Must complete at least 6 credits and maintain a CGPA of 3.25.
Sibling Financial Aid
Students who have siblings (whether brothers or sisters) enrolled at NSU may qualify for a 25% tuition waiver each, provided they meet the eligibility criteria.
Freedom Fighter Quota
Students eligible for the Freedom Fighter quota must formally apply and submit the following documentation:
Offer letter (for newly admitted students).
Attested copies of the freedom fighter’s credentials, including the provisional certificate, government gazette, and Lal Muktibarta.
Attested copies of both the student’s and freedom fighter’s birth certificates and academic records.
This quota operates on a first-come, first-served basis, with priority given to orphans and the children of deceased or wounded freedom fighters.
Application Process for Financial Aid
Financial aid applications are invited every semester through official notifications. Students must complete an application form available at Prime Bank, Bashundhara Branch, Dhaka, upon payment of Tk. 1,000. The deadlines for financial aid applications are:
Spring Semester: 3rd week of January.
Summer Semester: 3rd week of July.
Maintenance of Financial Aid
To maintain their financial aid, recipients must demonstrate satisfactory academic progress:
Undergraduates: Maintain a minimum CGPA of 2.75.
Graduates: Maintain a minimum CGPA of 3.25.
Students receiving a 50% or 75% tuition waiver must maintain a CGPA of 3.00.
Recipients must also pay Tk. 500 each semester for the renewal of their waiver facility and must coordinate with the Financial Aid Office (FAO) during the registration process.
Graduate Studies Overview at NSU
The Office of Graduate Studies at NSU is responsible for overseeing graduate education and research initiatives, ensuring high-quality academic programs across various disciplines.
Graduate Programs Offered
NSU offers a variety of graduate programs through different schools:
School of Business and Economics:
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)
MS in Economics
Master in Development Studies (MDS)
School of Engineering and Physical Sciences:
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Electrical and Electronic Engineering
MSc in Civil Engineering
MSc in Applied Mathematics and Computational Science (AMCS)
School of Health and Life Sciences:
MS in Biotechnology
MS in Environmental Science and Management (MESM)
MPharm in Pharmaceutical Technology and Biopharmaceutics
MPharm in Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy
Master of Public Health (MPH)
Executive Master of Public Health (EMPH)
School of Humanity and Social Sciences:
Master of Laws (LL.M)
Master of Arts in History and Asian Studies (MAHAS)
MA in English
Master in Public Policy & Governance (MPPG)
Executive Masters in Policy & Governance (EMPG)
Admission Requirements
Applicants must fulfill the following admission criteria:
Hold a four-year bachelor’s degree with a GPA of 2.75 or above.
Demonstrate English proficiency.
Submit a brief statement of purpose.
Work experience is mandatory for EMBA and EMPH applicants.
Application Process
The application process involves a screening of submissions, followed by an admission test that assesses academic records, performance on written tests, and viva voce evaluations.
Contact Information
For further inquiries regarding financial aid and graduate studies, students can reach out to the following offices:
Financial Aid Office (FAO)
Location: Plot 15, Block B, Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229
Email: financial.aid@northsouth.edu
Phone: +880-2-55668200, Ext. 6018, 2182, 2183, 2181
Website: www.northsouth.edu
Office of Graduate Studies
Director: Professor Dr. Biswas Karabi Farhana
Office Contact: ADM 621
Email: biswas.farhana@northsouth.edu
North South University (NSU) provides a range of financial aid options to support students in their educational pursuits. The eligibility criteria for financial aid include impressive academic achievements: candidates must have at least 7 'A's in O-level exams and 3 'A's in A-levels, along with satisfactory performance in the NSU Admission Test.
Tuition waivers are available for specific groups, such as MBA and MPH applicants who achieve the highest scores on the NSU admission test, earning a 50% tuition waiver. NSU graduates with a CGPA of 3.80 at the undergraduate level also qualify for a 50% tuition waiver for their graduate studies. Additionally, undergraduate students must complete a minimum of 9 credits and maintain a CGPA of 2.75, while graduate students are required to complete at least 6 credits and maintain a CGPA of 3.25.
Siblings studying at NSU may receive a 25% tuition waiver each if two or more are enrolled. Students applying under the Freedom Fighter quota must submit relevant documentation and are considered on a first-come, first-served basis, with priority given to orphans and children of deceased or wounded freedom fighters.
Applications for financial aid are accepted every semester, with the process initiated by filling out an application form available at the Prime Bank Bashundhara Branch, Dhaka, upon payment of Tk. 1,000. Deadlines for applications are set for the 3rd week of January for the Spring Semester and the 3rd week of July for the Summer Semester. Recipients must demonstrate satisfactory academic progress to maintain their financial aid.
Graduate Studies Overview
The Office of Graduate Studies at NSU oversees various graduate education programs designed to enhance the professional opportunities for graduates. Students with bachelor’s degrees from NSU or other accredited universities can enroll in these programs, which serve as a strong foundation for pursuing professional jobs at home and abroad or for doctoral studies in reputable institutions globally. Admissions are open three times a year: January, May, and September, with applications accepted year-round.
Graduate student research is encouraged through structured oversight by a committee of faculty members. Students select a research supervisor based on expertise and work with them to form a committee of three, including one member from a related department. Graduate seminars are organized regularly to help students engage in scholarly discussions and present their research.
Furthermore, the Graduate Studies Office conducts tracer studies to track the academic and professional advancement of alumni, gathering feedback that informs curriculum revisions through the NSU Academic Council.
For more information regarding financial aid and graduate studies, students can contact the respective offices:
Financial Aid Office (FAO)
Plot 15, Block B, Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229
Email: financial.aid@northsouth.edu
Phone: +880-2-55668200, Ext. 6018
Office of Graduate Studies
Professor Dr. Biswas Karabi Farhana, Director
Office Contact: ADM 621
Email: biswas.farhana@northsouth.edu
Alumni Engagement Opportunities
Get Involved:
Volunteering: Alumni can volunteer to support current students and the School of Business and Economics (SBE) by sharing their skills and expertise.
Recruitment: Organizations can advertise job vacancies to SBE students. Contact CPC at faisal.wali@northsouth.edu.
Networking: Alumni can register to offer advice to students and recent graduates.
Representative Roles:
Year Representative: Organize reunions and events for classmates.
Country Contact: Act as a liaison for alumni in various countries to organize networking events.
Future Opportunities: Alumni can express interest in mentoring, mock interviews, and providing work placements.
Events: Alumni events, including reunions and meetings, are organized by the Outreach Office, which seeks support from alumni.
Communication: Alumni are encouraged to keep in touch, update their contact information, and suggest events.
Research Mission Statements
School of Business & Economics:
Focuses on conducting impactful research to enhance business education and practice, encouraging faculty publications and establishing partnerships with reputable journals.
School of Engineering & Physical Sciences:
Aims for excellence in innovation and entrepreneurship through interdisciplinary research aligned with national goals, fostering collaborations to address societal challenges.
School of Humanities & Social Sciences:
Strives for interdisciplinary research excellence and academic growth, encouraging faculty to publish and expand degree programs.
School of Health & Life Sciences:
Committed to impactful research in environmental and medical sciences, engaging faculty and students in quality research initiatives.
Contact Information
For alumni involvement and inquiries:
SBE Outreach Team:
Md. Mahabuber Rahaman (Media & Logistics Officer)
Farzana Amin (Editor & Accounts Officer)
Email: sbe.outreach@northsouth.edu
For research inquiries:
Office of Research:
Mostafizur Rahman (Director)
Email: director.research@northsouth.edu
Phone: +880-2-55668200, Ext: 6464, 6465
For alumni affairs:
Alumni Affairs Officer: Sk. Fardin Yaman
Email: fardin.yaman@northsouth.edu
Phone: +880-2-55668200, Ext: 1064
The Office of Research at North South University is located in Room 625, Level 6 of the Admin Building at Plot 15, Block B, Bashundhara, Dhaka-1229, Bangladesh. For inquiries, you can reach the office via email at mostafizur.rahman09@northsouth.edu or tahsinul.haque@northsouth.edu, with the Director's email being director.research@northsouth.edu. The contact phone number is +880-2-55668200, with extensions 6464 and 6465.
The office is home to a dedicated membership list comprising esteemed faculty members, including Dr. AQMA Rahman Bhuiyan (Chair, SHSS SRC), Dr. Sk. Tawfique M. Haque, Dr. Sharif Uddin Ahmed, Dr. Mahbubur Rahman, Dr. Rizwanul Islam, Dr. Rizwan Khair, Dr. Selim Reza, Dr. Ishtiaque Ahmed, and Dr. Shakila Nur, all of whom contribute significantly to the research initiatives at NSU.
NSU has seen remarkable student research achievements, with notable highlights including Md. Sahil Rafiq, a recent graduate from the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, who received a Certificate of Award for Best Paper at the 2nd International Symposium on One Health/One World. His paper, supervised by Dr. Nadim Khandaker, focused on sustainable treatment of textile processing wastewater.
Another standout achievement was by Ibrahim Abdullah Mannan, who published a significant article on tiger conservation, collaborating with renowned faculty members. Additionally, students Nazifa Nawyal and B.M. Zuhair Siraj were recognized with a Travel Award for their research papers presented at an international conference in Wuhan, China, where Nazifa won the Best Poster award.

The office also proudly announced the first issue of the North South University Journal of Student Research, showcasing diverse research topics. Graduate student Elias Hossain published a systematic review on natural language processing in healthcare decision-making in a prestigious journal.

Moreover, young researchers from the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences won 1st Prize at the 5th Young Scientists Congress for their innovative research in cancer treatment. The office celebrates the achievements of its students and faculty, reinforcing NSU's commitment to advancing research and academic excellence.

Why NSU? A Center of Excellence

Since its establishment in 1992, North South University (NSU) has emerged as a beacon of higher education in Bangladesh. Fully accredited by the University Grants Commission, the sole national accreditation authority, NSU stands out as the first institution in the country to receive American accreditation for its programs through the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). A distinctive feature of NSU is its faculty, all of whom hold degrees from esteemed international institutions, primarily in North America and Europe, enriching the university's academic environment with their extensive knowledge and expertise. Additionally, NSU hosts several international faculty members, further enhancing the quality of teaching and learning. For those curious about the qualifications of our faculty, detailed profiles can be found on our website at www.northsouth.edu.

International Exposure

NSU is a vibrant hub of international exposure, attracting students from 16 different countries, including Somalia, Gambia, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Nepal, Bhutan, India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Myanmar, China, Korea, Japan, Turkey, Egypt, and Norway. This diverse enrollment continues to grow each year, bolstered by new Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with various international universities and organizations. Our partnerships include prestigious institutions such as Texas A&M University, the George Washington University, and the University of Maryland, among others. Currently, approximately 150 international students are pursuing their undergraduate and graduate degrees at NSU, where an American curriculum is followed, and English is the medium of instruction, allowing students to experience a quality American education right in Bangladesh.

Affordable Tuition Fees

Understanding the financial burden of education, especially for international students, NSU is committed to equality and fairness. The tuition fees are the same for all students, regardless of nationality, making quality education accessible to everyone. For specific information about tuition fees, you can visit http://www.northsouth.edu/tuition-fees.html. We can assure you that the total cost remains significantly lower than that of many renowned universities worldwide. Furthermore, talented students with excellent academic records can apply for scholarships through the Financial Aid Office, with opportunities to study at NSU with up to a 100% scholarship based on academic merit.

Our Alumni

NSU is dedicated to producing competent graduates who excel in their respective fields, fostering lifelong learning, leadership skills, and critical thinking abilities. Over the past 25 years, NSU has successfully adhered to this mission, yielding graduates who are celebrated nationally and internationally. Our alumni are making their mark in prestigious organizations, including the World Bank, Google, Unilever, and HSBC, as well as prominent national companies like Beximco, Grameenphone, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Many alumni further contribute to NSU by returning as faculty members after completing their postgraduate studies abroad, thus giving back to the institution that nurtured their academic journeys.

A New Adventure

Studying at NSU and living in Bangladesh presents a unique adventure for international students, who are encouraged to embrace inclusivity and diversity. Students are invited to broaden their horizons by engaging with local culture and forming new friendships. NSU hosts various vibrant events throughout the year, such as Pohela Baishakh (Bengali New Year) and Pohela Falgun (First Day of Spring), where student clubs organize day-long carnivals featuring rallies, folk demonstrations, and concerts. Cultural celebrations extend beyond Bengali traditions, with events like the Chinese New Year organized by the Confucius Institute, allowing participants to experience and learn about Chinese customs and festivities.

NSU also fosters student-led initiatives, including the Annual Cultural Evening, Socio-Camp for underprivileged children, and the NSU Model UN Conference, encouraging students to challenge themselves and apply their knowledge in practical ways. Enrolling at NSU guarantees an adventure-filled life enriched with opportunities for personal and professional growth.

